In the night sky,
Appears a set of stars,
Smoke arises from them,
From an unknown place,
It's still amazing.

Stars
Feeling a gloom,
When the sun turned to a shimmering moon,
Forgetting to look up,
at the stars
that brightly shine

Staring at the infinite darkness, admiring the universe
I am both overwhelmed and comforted
Surely somewhere out there, in the folds of colliding galaxies
There's a restful place for my soul
And in the shadow of such goliaths
A peaceful end for us all.

Opal fairy wings skim the lawn
palette bleeds rainbow tie-dye colors
i paint vanilla whipped cream clouds
sunlight spills in the rose red dawn.

Venus swirls pearl studded gown
circles black star in tiptoe ballet
andromeda unfolds her stairway
pleiades seven sisters step down.

Pisces, Scorpio and Cancer appear
as an orange tomato moon glows
cassiopeia dances in silver slippers,
canvas drizzled in opalescent bows.

Nebula is sponged, brushed in gold
metallic ink shimmers morning dew
saturn rings glisten above icy ocean
comets, asteroids, galaxy in motion.

Nebula rings, sings with elation;
glittery shimmers dance amid the light-play
of gasses and ice.
Universal life flows, whirling, swirling
in an unbridled ecstatic dance.

I looked at the restive sea,
The glorious, cashmere-chiffon sun,
Having completed her majestic run,
Glided on a silvery ski,

The whiskey-waves watched her glide,
Low down on the sapphire crests.
She paused for a moment and tried to hide,
Her platinum-golden tresses in the tide.

With her face turned skywards,
She smiled at the attending clouds,
Transforming them into slate-shrouds
of arches in a fairy palace.

She cast her cloak of many colours,
To enter night's portals of granite splendours,
The purple door was left ajar,
For admirers to watch from afar,
The lingering loveliness of her afterglow!

Evening has come; and across the skies
Out through the darkness that, quivering, dies
Beautiful, broad, and white,
Fashioned of many a silver ray
Stolen out of the ruins of Day,
Grows the pale bridge of the Milky Way,
Built by the architect Night.

Down the highroad of the Milky Way
We go riding
On horses made of stars.
The clouds flit like white butterflies;
We are dry . . . we do not know it is raining
Upon earth.
Roses of opal and pearl
Sway back and forth in the muisical wind . . .
Pine trees like emeralds hang . . .
A pheasant's wing like a fan is spread . . .
White mountain-peaks gleam . . .
Purple and silver is the sunrise.
Quiet lakes shine along the Milky Way
Like mirrors you hang on cottage walls.
When I am asleep
This is what I shall dream.
Things can never really go,
They come again and stay.
When your thoughts are put on beautiful things
They come alive and stay alive
In your mind.

Juno explores it
Using her sensors
Pointed carefully
In close up, then out
Threading the doughnut
Encircling the globe:
Radiation belt

Could you imagine you'd see all you saw
All those moons and rings
Saturn gave us so much to explore
Saturn became your home
In this era, after the plunge
Now we have only your photos and data
I miss you, dear explorer

Common among the rocky planets and icy worlds
Records of celestial bombardment
Attesting to a violent meteoric past
Tumultuous from start to finish
Ejecting rock blocks far and wide
Ringed mountains your circumspect marker
Still you remain for eons past

Become a Sojourner
if you have the Spirit,
and the Opportunity
like a risen Phoenix
seize your Curiosity
to gain InSight
from your Perseverance

Stand on Europa's surface and look up,
And Jupiter is too big to grasp.
Sit on the surface
no, lie down.
How overwhelming Jupiter is in the darkness, and so bright.
On your back like this it feels like looking down, like you could fall into those churning clouds.

It's cold on icy Europa, but beneath Jupiter's clouds is a worldwide furnace.
Jupiter just loiters there, never rising or setting.

But it changes
So fast!
The clouds are in an endless race from one horizon of the planet to the other.
When you woke, the Great Red spot crept up the western horizon like a planet-sized flounder.

Now lunchtime and the Great Red Spot has already disappeared over the eastern horizon.

Jupiter changes like Earth's moon.
Crescent-full-crescent-dark ...
You wake today, and Jupiter is full.
You wake the next day, and Jupiter is a thick crescent and the Sun is rising on your left.
By bedtime the Sun has disappeared behind Jupiter,
which is now mostly dark with a ring of twilight.

From here on Europa Jupiter is a campfire of clouds.
Could you watch this forever?
So still, yet not still.
But you can not stay, must not stay.
This is no place for humans.
The radiation.
Two years to get here but already you must leave and never return.
The radiation.

You must return to Earth where nature sculpted all the species to fit our planet,
Where the sky is mostly empty, and will sometimes seem dull by comparison,
Where the world in the sky is only a medium-sized moon.
But Earth is the safest planet for you
For now.

Nature still sculpts us.
And someday it will mold us into something different,
Maybe into creatures hardier and even more adaptable.
Then we'll make homes of the planets
Here and around other stars.
Maybe some of us will make spaceships our homes
So we can always be exploring

And finding new worlds to study
to admire,
to dream about.

Dizzying cyclones
Purple and blue, swirling clouds
Poles of Jupiter

Rusty red surface
Cratered, layered, rocky plains
Someday we'll touch Mars

I have seen them in their majesty, in ultraviolet light.
They stretch across five light years' space there in the dark of night.
They are the womb of newborn stars, the cradle and the nave.
The elements are present there, in aquamarine shade.
Within the Pillars there is light, the light of proto-stars,
Surrounded by the swirling dust which will be what we are.
Then, sometime in the yet to be, on such a starry night,
They may note the death of Sol, the star that gave us light.
As they see our old star swell then shrink as fuels run out.
They too may pause and think, in wonder at the sight.

Tomorrow we light our rocket,
we burn our engines and likewise,
burn a hole in the sky,
And thus fall to Earth.

How does one spend your last day in space?
Looking at Earth,
a blue jewel surrounded by inky blackness,
Pure Occipital Ecstasy.

Unconstrained by your girth,
you fly with vestigial wings.

The atmosphere on edge,
iridescent blue with no earthly parallel,
Electrifying Diaphanous Beauty.

Guarded by Sirens of Space,
singing saccharine songs,
beckoning you to crash
which tears you limb from limb
and scorching what remains
into cosmic croutons that sprinkle onto
the garden salad of Earth.

One last feast out the window,
A looking glass of Wonderland.
Offering both a portal to see your world,
and a translucent reflection to see yourself.

Contemplation,
what is your place in this world below,
how do you change it,
how does it change you.

We are wedded to this planet,
until mass extinction we do part.
Perhaps one planet is not enough.

You study your charts,
we prepare our spaceship,
and our minds.

We make ready our descent,
into these seemingly gentle arms.
The eager anticipation of hugging your wife,
your boys with grins followed by pouting faces,
both excited to see you but not understanding why you left.
Oh how does one spend your last day in Space.
What would you do?