The trouble first started when the observatories tasked with tracking potentially-hazardous asteroids reported several objects headed towards Earth on similar trajectories and at very high speeds—much too fast to originate from within the Solar system. On paper it looked like a mistake, not even worth reporting, but astronomers’ attempts to find the error only served to produce more asteroids. The find was sent up the telescope pecking order until it got to us at Keck, and we turned the huge mirrors on the peak of Mauna Kea to take a look.

When we did, we didn’t see a handful asteroids; we saw hundreds. There had been no error. There were at least five hundred asteroids, all of them about the same size, all moving in the same direction—straight towards Earth—and all sprinkled evenly across a little swath of space just a hundred thousand miles wide—sprinkled a little too evenly, in fact.

We realized that we were not, in fact, seeing impending death by asteroids, at which we started making calls.

“Office of the President.”

“Yes. This is the director of the Keck Observatory in Hawaii. We believe we’ve just detected several hundred alien spacecraft approaching Earth at high speed.”

Click.

“Department of Defense.”

“We have several observatories tracking what appears to be a large fleet of alien spacecraft.”

Click.

“NASA.”

“Can you guys take a look at this? We have a cluster of high-speed NEOs with some artificial-looking properties.”

“Look, if you want Hubble time, you’ll have to wait in line like everyone else.”

Click.

“NORAD.”

“Okay, before you hang up on me, you might want to point your secret interplanetary radar or whatever you have up there in the general direction of Aquarius.”

“Alright, sir. Send us your data, and we’ll call you back.”

They actually did call us back…after they called the White House. They took it even more seriously than I expected. Before I knew it, I was sitting in the Oval Office, having been whisked across the country at Mach 5 by an airplane that didn’t officially exist.

We had barely sat down when the President spun his laptop around to show the latest radar movie from NORAD. It only confirmed what we already suspected: three hundred spaceships, each about a mile long, drifting back and forth in a cloud-like formation, were coming our way. Countless smaller ships zipped between them. Their speed was about a hundred miles a second, and they would reach Earth in two days.

“Military intelligence reports that there’s no way these things could have come from any country on Earth,” the President said. “Do you agree?”

“Yes sir,” I replied, “We’re looking at a billion tons of metal, and it’s moving twice as fast as anything we’ve ever launched.”

“Metal? Are you sure?”

“Yes, spectral analysis confirms it. Whatever they are, they aren’t natural, and they aren’t terrestrial.”

“How long before the public notices?”

“I’m surprised they haven’t noticed already. I’d give it till midnight at the latest.”

“Midnight tonight?”

“More likely around dinner time.”

The President turned to his aide and said, “Put a rush on those remarks; I need them for immediate release.” He turned back to me. “Now, the money question: why are they here?”

“How should I know? Why don’t you call them and ask them yourself?”

“We did just that before you arrived. General?” he asked over the satellite link to NORAD.

“Still no response sir.”

“I’m afraid that with no other information, we must prepare for all contingencies,” the President said. “General, go to DEFCON 3 until further notice with updates every four hours.”

“Yes, sir.”

By the time the aliens arrived, the President’s men had assembled a team of alien experts in the East Wing—if by “alien experts” you mean that they locked a bunch of astronomers and anthropologists in a room and hoped we didn’t kill each other. At least they kept their distance from the UFO nuts. A few junior staffers got stuck with the job of providing food and drinks for us and writing down all of our cockamamie ideas. It made us feel sorry for them when we weren’t too busy arguing.

We knew that evolution could produce any number of psychological profiles in lower animals, but everyone had a different opinion—or opinions—on which ones could survive long enough to produce an advanced civilization. In other words, we had nothing. Well, not quite: we did put together a mathematical message that would translate a few very basic concepts into what we hoped was a universally intelligible language in what most of us agreed was a foolproof way, but the aliens never replied. We could pick up plenty of radio chatter among themselves, but none of it was ever pointed at us.

We were in the middle of debating the plausibility of the existences of something like one of the more exotic aliens from science fiction when one of those poor junior staffers burst in and shouted that the alien fleet was entering a high orbit.

A few of us went down and met the President in the bunker, where the Secret Service had insisted on taking him, for all the good it would do. He was watching a whole wall of video feeds, from the public reactions in New York to the main floor at NORAD, but the most important one was the radar loop. The big ships were settling into a very high orbit, but some of the little ones were moving in closer.

“Here, what do you make of this?” he asked.

“Scouts, maybe?” one of us said.

“Or missiles,” the Secretary of Defense countered.

“Can you tell them to break off?” said the President.

“If they’ve paid attention to all the other messages we’ve sent them, yes, we can translate that, but we don’t have much time. We may need to shoot them down.”

“Um, we can’t shoot them down, sir,” NORAD interrupted. “They’re too fast for our missiles to catch up with them.”

“What? You’re saying we’re defenseless?” the President demanded.

“Well, we might be able to get them with air-to-air lasers, but we’re talking fractions of a second, sir.”

“Fine, scramble the lasers.”

But before the modified 747s with their enormous anti-missile lasers—which didn’t officially exist—could even take off, the alien ships changed course. They settled into a network of low Earth orbits, in which they were constantly repositioning and changing direction. We watched them for a while with the growing inkling that they were surveying something. There were about a hundred of the little ships—radar said they were about the size of fighter planes—and their paths took them over most parts of Earth’s surface, land and sea. Radio chatter was still going strong, but they seemed to be only looking at us. There was no sign of weapons being deployed, and no one on Earth wanted to be the first to push the button.

After they’d had time to scan Earth’s surface a couple of times, and after a lot more unanswered hails, they started moving again. They dropped down further, to the orbits where most of our satellites were, and gathered into a few tight clusters. It was only then that we began to realize what they were doing.

“ISS, this is Houston,” came a voice from one of the video feeds. “You’ve got eight alien craft approaching at high speeds.”

The International Space Station was on a neighboring screen. “We see them, Houston. Do you recommend we evacuate?”

“Uh, that’s a negative, ISS. They’re blocking your deorbit vector…”

“Get into the Soyuz capsules,” another controller interrupted. “If they show hostility, and you get a clear path, come back down.”

“Roger, Houston, we’re proceeding to the Soyuz.”

From our limited camera view, we heard, more than saw, the six astronauts climbing through the sections of the space station and squeezing into the two Soyuz capsules docked to the structure, ready to make a quick return to Earth. The eight alien ships zoomed up and encircled the station. They were small, maneuverable ships not too different from upper stage rocket boosters with a few appendages.

“ISS, Houston. What do you see up there?”

“Uh, not sure, Houston,” the commander replied nervously. “They’re just kinda sitting there. They’ve taken up some kind of formation around us.”

“ISS, can you see the aliens in the ships from there?”

“Negative. They’re in pressure suits, and they only have small windows. They’re…I think they’re blue, but that’s all I can tell. Here, I’ll try to get some pictures.”

We saw the commander pull out his camera and take a couple of pictures before the ships began to move again. They circled under the station and strung tethers from their pylons, ship to ship, then began moving up toward the station’s frame.

“Bozhe moy, it’s a net! Evakuerovat!”

In the confusion, we had no idea if anyone got away. We later learned that one of the capsules did have a clear path to unberth and drop back to Earth, but all we knew at the time was that there was still a lot of shouting coming from the station.

“We’re moving! We’re mov…” The voice cut off.

“ISS, respond.”

The computers reestablished the signal. The astronauts were sitting oddly in the capsule. We soon realized they were hanging upside-down in their seats. “They’re pulling us up, and fast—tenth of a gee, maybe more.”

“Can the station take that?”

No response. Everyone could hear the joints groaning under the stress, though. For ten agonizing minutes, we watched as the station was lifted higher and higher into orbit until…
“They’ve stopped.” The voice came from Houston.

“What?”

“They’ve released the station. It’s orbiting freely again.”

“Where?”

“Let’s see…according to radar, it’s at an altitude of 323 miles, inclination 52.5 degrees, orbit is perfectly circular.”

“ISS, are you okay up there?”

“Yes, capsule’s fine. And I have positive pressure readings from all modules. No indications of a hull breech. Do you still want us to come down?”

The operators at Houston started debating the point, but the President had more pressing concerns: “Excuse me, but can we even still get to the station, now?”

“Yes, sir, it’s still well within our partners’ launch capabilities.”

“Then why did they move it?”

“Mr. President, I’ve got the Space Telescope Science Institute on the line,” a staffer interrupted. They say that two of the alien ships just grabbed the Hubble Telescope and moved it down thirty miles.”

“Down? Are they trying to knock it out of orbit?”

“No, sir, they just moved it.”

“Where is it now? General, check the radar.”

“Just a minute, sir…it looks like Hubble is now at an altitude of 323 miles, inclination 30 degrees, orbit is perfectly…”

Several alarms began beeping on the NORAD end, and the video feed cut out a moment later.

“What happened?” the President demanded.

“We lost the satellite feed. It’s…it’s like it’s not there anymore.” On the wall of monitors, all of the satellite feeds were vanishing at an alarming rate.

“They’re shooting down our satellites,” said the Secretary of Defense.

“Sir, we can coordinate all defense operations by landline, including missile launch,” advised the National Security Adviser.

“Get me NORAD again first. I want to know what happened.”

It took them a few tries to make contact again. Most communications channels were overloaded by civilian, law enforcement, and media calls. Finally, someone got back through to NORAD on an encrypted landline that had not been used in years. She put them on speakerphone.

“What’s happening, General?”

“Mr. President, I suggest evidence of hostile intent. They’ve completely disrupted our satellite systems. Communications satellites, spy satellites, weather, GPS, civilian satellite phone, satellite TV and radio—everything.”

“What about the Russian satellites?”

“Those too. They’re rearranging all of the orbits.”

“Rearranging? So they didn’t shoot them down?”

The general checked the maps again. “I’m not sure what they’re doing, sir.”

“My God,” said one of the aids from the stairway. “Mr. President, you need to see this.”

After a brief argument with the Secret Service, the President got them to let him onto the White House lawn for a couple of minutes, where we saw quite a show. A dozen bright lights streaked across the clear twilight sky. They were not the little, darting points of the spaceships high above, though those were clearly visible, but meteors—fireballs with long tails, many brighter than the half moon as they streaked past it in the west. Through the mess that was international communications at the moment, we soon learned that everyone on Earth was seeing the same show. The alleged important people rushed back down to the bunker.

“We’re under attack,” the NORAD commander shouted. “Sir, we must retaliate.”

“With what? All we have are nuclear missiles.  And what if the aliens shoot them down?”

“We have to try something, sir.”

“Wait, wait, wait!” The sound was coming from somewhere in the background at NORAD. There was some muffled shouting and half-heard discussion before the tech was put on the phone.

“Mr. President, this is not an attack, sir. None of the debris is hitting the ground—it’s all burning up in the atmosphere. And what’s more, radar says it’s not even coming from the aliens. It’s our own space junk.”

“What do mean, our own space junk?”

“Those ten thousand pieces of junk in low Earth orbit from the space program? They’ve been dropping off the radar in the same places as the meteors. That, the satellites moving around—it all fits, sir. The aliens are cleaning up low Earth orbit to make room for their ships.”

“General, do you think it’s credible?”

“I suppose it makes more sense than anything else I’ve heard today, sir.”

The President looked at me, and I nodded in agreement. “We have a lot of junk up there,” I said, “and their ships are big targets for it.”

“Even if that’s true,” the Secretary of Defense said, “it doesn’t answer the question of why the aliens are here. Mr. President, we cannot allow this encroachment on our orbital resources.”

“And if the aliens are peaceful? I don’t think we want to make them angry.”

“That’s a fine sentiment, sir, but why won’t they talk to us? That doesn’t look like a very friendly gesture.”

There was more muffled shouting on the phone. Something about missiles and radar and retaliation and loss of control. At the White House, no one could tell for sure what was happening, but it did not sound good. The General came back on after a couple of minutes. It wasn’t.

“Sir, it seems the decision’s been taken out of our hands,” he reported, his voice quavering. “The Chinese are launching kinetic anti-sat missiles at the aliens.”

“What?” the President shouted. “I thought we agreed to no unilateral action.”

No unilateral action? I thought. Then what were we just talking about doing? But there was nothing we could do now. We watched as a whole battery of Chinese missiles arced up into orbit…and promptly disappeared from the radar. Within minutes, there were reports of widespread panic in China resulting from heavy damage sustained by their military bases. They never even got close to hitting the aliens.

“Then the aliens shot down all the missiles?” the President asked.

“More than shot them down,” said the General. “As best we can tell, the anti-sat missiles were vaporized by high-powered lasers. Then the launchers were vaporized, and then…”

“Yes?”

“Nothing. They destroyed the launchers and didn’t do anything else that we can confirm.”

“Yet.”

“The good news is that the aliens are settling into stable orbits and sitting tight, sir. They’re almost done moving our satellites, and if they leave them where they are, we can reestablish communication with most of them.”

“And the bad news is that our weapons are completely useless,” the President finished.
“Not completely, sir. We should have a clear shot with air-to-air lasers, now. Do you want to use them?”

“Do we have any kind of reasonable chance of winning that way?”

“Honestly, Mr. President? No. Not against that kind of firepower.”

That made it easy enough. “Keep them at the ready, just in case, but let the Chinese or the Russians try first with their laser planes that we’re not supposed to know about.”

“Yes, sir,” the General agreed.

The lasers actually did do some damage. The trouble was that, as predicted, we were hopelessly outclassed. The alien ships were polished to a mirror finish; our planes were painted blue and white. We had megawatt-class lasers; we didn’t even want to guess at how much power the aliens controlled. The aliens were trained for a laser fight; our lasers were designed to shoot things that didn’t shoot back. The Chinese shot down a couple of ships that we later realized were probably automated drones. They were replaced immediately after the aliens disabled all of our air-to-air lasers. They started with the Chinese planes, but within minutes, they tracked down and disabled all of ours and the Russians’. I could just picture the aliens laughing as they swatted away the one fly that was a bit cleverer than the rest.

For the next day or so, they just sat in orbit, not doing anything that was evident from the ground. On the third morning of the—invasion? visitation? —the President crawled out of bed after somehow managing to sleep for a few hours. He did his best to look presentable, but the extended crisis was wearing hard on him.

“Any new activity?” he asked as he sank into his desk chair.

The Director of National Intelligence presented the latest notes and summarized the main points: “There’s been recent movement. The aliens have reorganized their main fleet into three groups on different orbits—all at 34 degrees inclination, but unevenly spaced longitudes—purpose unknown.”

“34 degrees? That…doesn’t fit their grid pattern, does it.”

“No, sir. Their new courses could cross paths with our satellites.”

“Are they preparing to land?”

“That’s one theory. We still haven’t decoded their radio chatter, though, and we still haven’t seen any transmissions that look like they’re directed at anyone on Earth, human or alien.”

The President scanned the briefing. There was an extended list of our “theories” about the aliens—everything from how they traveled to what they wanted to why they wouldn’t talk to us. It was even more wild than the previous list.

“Do we actually know anything about these guys?” the President asked.

Ha! I could have answered that. Jack squat, that’s what. Okay, we were pretty sure they were carbon based by that point, and they had to have come from an Earth-like environment, but beyond that, we had no idea, and most of us didn’t want to admit it.

The Director was going on about what the Chinese were saying—that they’d found “vulnerabilities” in the alien fleet. “Weak points”, and “critical subsystems”. Maybe even “gaps” in their defenses. We had to flush those ideas out of the President’s head later. None of it mattered if no one could get missiles anywhere near them, and no one was trying, were they?

As it happened, the aliens were preparing to land—or at least some of them. The commander at NORAD confirmed it when he called in on the newly-reestablished secure satellite link.

“What’s happening, General?”

“Mr. President, three of the largest alien ships are dropping out of orbit and entering the atmosphere.”

“Where?”

“We’re tracking one over the Upper Midwest, one near Hawaii, and one over the South Pacific. We don’t think any of them will land on U.S. soil, but we’re still extrapolating. We have about thirty minutes before they hit the lower atmosphere. Do you want us to scramble fighters?”

“Do you think that would really help?”

“I don’t know, sir, but I’d feel better than just sitting here.”

The President sighed, rubbing his temples. “Ah…standard patrol patterns. And tell me as soon as you have their destinations.”

We soon saw that all three ships were headed toward major cities: Guayaquil, Ecuador; Montevideo, Uruguay; and Cape Town, South Africa—major, but of practically no strategic value by western standards. I’m not sure what we were expecting, but we always used to love to flatter ourselves by imaging the aliens showing up over our First World power centers. The whole room was thrown into confusion trying to figure out this move.

“Why those three cities?”

“Transportation, maybe? They’re all major port cities,” someone suggested.

“Or resources. They all have plenty of local farmland.”

“They’re all in warm climates.”

“All in the Southern Hemisphere.”

“No, why would that matter?”

“They’re all about the same size, sir—two to four million people each.”

“Maybe that’s why they didn’t try for Buenos Aires. It’s a lot bigger.”

“Aha! They’re all in developing countries. Or at least not fully developed to our standards. If it’s an invasion, they’ll want to establish a beachhead on a soft target.”

“Are we sure it’s an invasion” the President asked.

“I don’t see much alternative to an invasion, sir. None of them are political hot-spots, either. Frankly, no one cares enough about those countries to send a large army to take them back.”

“What’s their own military strength?”

“Not enough. And no laser weaponry. They’ll need help if we want to defend them.” There was a pause. “Do we want to defend them, Mr. President?”

“We need to consider the possibility,” he said. “If this is a global invasion, we’ll have to do it sooner or later.”

“And if it’s only a local invasion?”

“Is there such a thing with aliens?”

“We’ll need global support on this, sir. If nothing else, to make sure no one oversteps their bounds. This is an international matter, after all.”

“Then we deal with it internationally,” the President said. “Set up a teleconference with all of the nuclear powers. Then we’ll make a plan.”

And so, all of the world’s confirmed nuclear powers and anyone else who could commit the resources got together…and accomplished absolutely nothing. From what we could tell, they didn’t even annoy the aliens. No projectile weapons could penetrate their defenses. Missiles were shot down with lasers, and bullets bounced off some kind of force field. Any airplanes that came within about ten miles of the alien ships had their instruments scrambled, and, if they persisted, their wings shot off. None of the pilots were killed, though, except for a couple who managed to fly what was left of their planes close enough to get vaporized by the lasers.

Soon, the three alien spaceships landed unopposed on the outskirts of three moderately developed Third World cities. In all three cities, police and military personnel were lined up to confront the invaders the minute they walked out their doors, but they never got that chance. Smaller craft launched out of the big ships by the hundreds and made short work of the defenders, disabling all weapons all the way down to pistols with precision laser fire.

What happened next was almost a repeat of the dance they had gone through in orbit. They swept up all the humans they could find in nets—nets that proved impervious to any quick cutting method—and carried them off, only to set them down gently in nearby cities. People got the message pretty quick and hid in buildings, but the aliens were prepared for that, too. Yet smaller drones found ways inside—smashing widows, lasering doors off their hinges, flying down chimneys, whatever it took—and dragged anyone inside out into the streets.

We watched the live coverage from the White House bunker. One brave—and foolish—reporter in Montevideo stood in front of a large window to film the fray. One of the black, hovering disks lashed out with flailing cables and smashed out a chunk of the window large enough to pull her through. It grabbed her by the wrist and ankle, and she and her cameraman were picked up in one of the nets and carried away. The English subtitles of her screams read, “Keep filming! Keep filming!” I had to admire her journalistic dedication.

“I don’t understand. What are they doing?” the President asked.

“Clearly, it’s an invasion, sir.”

“Yes, I know that, but what’s with the nets and the ropes and dropping people off ten miles away?”

“From what we can see, they’re going out of their way not to seriously hurt anyone. They’re avoiding critical infrastructure—hospitals, airports, the normal roadways out of the cities. It’s like they’re trying to get everyone to evacuate on their own.”

“And the ones who don’t get rounded up like animals.”

“Maybe that’s how they see us.”

“It would certainly explain why they’re not talking to us.”

“The question is,” said the Secretary of Defense, “is the ten-mile perimeter there because that’s all they want, or its all they have the resources to clear out…Or is it just the first phase?”

“They clearly have a lot more resources than they’re using. I would count on them being limited that way.”

“Maybe they want the existing infrastructure of the cities. If nothing else, they’re convenient stockpiles of raw materials.”

“Raw materials? They aren’t mines. They’re displacing millions of people!” The President said, then sat silently and watched the coverage from news cameras and cell phone videos that were flooding out of the affected areas. It was all pretty much the same. “Set up another teleconference. We need to take a second look at ground forces.”

So we did, and, predictably, the ground forces were just as impotent as the air forces. Troop transport aircraft were turned away—if necessary roped by drones and towed away, after being threatened by the lasers. Only airliners evacuating the populace were allowed through to the airports. No one was sure how the aliens could tell the planes apart, even when they were disguised, but they did.

No vehicles except unarmed ambulances and evacuation buses could get through the perimeter. If all else failed, other vehicles would have their wheels lasered off and be carried away wholesale. After the cities were mostly cleaned out, the aliens put up force field fences and stopped letting any humans in. Any stragglers they shipped out themselves. It was only then, when both sides could safely approach the perimeter, that we got a good look at them. They shared our general body plan—sort of—but not much else. They looked like a complete unknown to us.

Once the force fields were up, the other ships landed. The aliens were indeed adapted for an Earth-like environment. From their behavior, observed from outside the perimeters, and the presence of aliens of different sizes, we “experts” concluded that most of the three million aliens disembarked from the ship were families—colonists, not soldiers. Some of them set up shelters of their own, while others heavily renovated the abandoned human buildings and moved into them.

Not that the details mattered. Preparations for a massive, international, amphibious invasion of Montevideo had to be scrapped since no one could figure out how to get an army past the force fields. Covert agents who tunneled under them were caught the minute they got through. When the Russians finally tried nuclear missiles, the aliens shot them down far enough out that a detonation wouldn’t have been a threat to them anyway, and our own last resort, a high-altitude nuclear EMP, fried every electronic device in Ecuador…expect for the aliens’.

So that was it. No one could touch them. Of course, they’ve never really given us any trouble since they settled in. Despite fighting the combined military might of Earth and relocating ten million people, the body count stood at zero aliens and less than 200 humans. They’ve even let us keep launching things into space as long as we keep to our allowed orbits…apparently: they still refuse to talk to us. We don’t even know their name.

Huge amounts of valuable telescope time has been spent trying to figure out what the aliens are actually doing. As best we can tell, they set up those three colonies and never bothered with the rest of the planet. Instead, they started a lucrative trade of heavy metals mined from Mercury. There are ships coming and going all the time from the general direction of Aquarius, apparently carrying bulk cargo. Despite the protestations of the all the people they displaced, the international consensus seems to be to just live with them.

Wouldn’t that be nice? Unfortunately, reality never works out so smoothly. Most of South America is under martial law, and there’s an army assembling at Buenos Aires, arming up with lasers and what little alien tech they could reverse engineer just by looking. Washington claims that only the Chinese are behind it, and everyone else is pretending to believe them. Whoever it is, they’re still gearing up to invade Montevideo. The rest of us are starting to worry they might succeed.

“EVA1 to Rover. Comm check - suit hatch sealed and maintaining pressure.”
“Roger that EVA1. You’re good to go.”
“EVA2 to Rover - same for me.”
“Roger EVA2. Nice comm protocol. Sounds as if you’ve been on Mars for a while.”
“Negative Rover. Just fifteen months, six days and three hours. Not that I’m counting.”
Laughter erupted over the comm loop.
“Understood EVA2. You guys get the last of the sample cores and we’ll head back to the
habitat tomorrow.”
Clanking and bumping sounds vibrated through the rover’s walls as the two-suited
crewmembers, Dr. Bob Smith (EVA1) and Dr. Rajah Panjul (EVA2), disconnected their
suits from the external seal of the pressurized rover. Dr. Sarah Padaway remained in the
rover to monitor the communications with the habitat some twenty kilometers away
and ready to backup and assist the EVA crewmembers in case of an emergency. She also
was field-processing the samples they had already brought into the rover. Doing initial
processing in the field allowed the rover crews to increase the surveys completed during
any of the two-week excursions.
“The mobile core drill rig (CDR) has been disconnected from the rover and proceeding to
drill site forty-one.”
“Copy that Bob,” replied Sarah as she watched the two crewmembers drive the CDR via
remote control.
They were part of the first, six-member Martian expedition sent to prove-out different
technologies to enable permanent habitation on Mars, perform science experiments,
and ultimately look for signs of life, past or present. What wasn’t broadly mentioned
prior to their mission was the special committee of the MEPAG (Mars Exploration
Program Analysis Group) identified this initial landing site, deep within the Marianas
Trench, as the best location for an initial permanent habitation. It provided the greatest
atmospheric thickness and pressure, thus radiation protection. Additionally, it provided
one of the best locations for minimizing the temperature extremes, being near the
equator and under the most amount of atmosphere. MEPAG considered the location to
be a good candidate location for liquid water to exist close to the surface and thus the
possibility for life. So far the previous forty drill sites had come back dry - in all ways.
“EVA1 to Rover, CDR’s in position and locked down. Beginning drilling.”
“Copy that Bob,” replied Sarah.

“Rover to Hab 1; come in,” signaled Sarah.
“Hab 1 to Rover, we copy you. Go ahead,” came the reply after a few moments from
their home base habitat where the remaining three crewmembers lived and worked. Dr.
Padaway relayed the team’s progress from the day before and the plans for the current
workday.
“Copy Rover. We have received your data upload and will talk with you again same time
tomorrow unless something comes up. How are you three holding up out there?”
“Like three peas in a pod, Hab 1.” Dr. Padaway smiled. The commander meant well,
bless her. But thank goodness we’re heading back to the Hab tomorrow!
Even with the extreme amount of personality assessments and compatibility testing as
part of crew selection, there is nothing easy about personal interactions. Training with
the same six people for two years, spending three months together in a space ship the
size of a travel trailer en route to Mars, fifteen months in close quarters a long way from
home in the habitat, and then multiple two week excursions in a rover the size of a
minivan, at some point in time even your best friends’ breathing annoys you.
Understanding these normal stressors, the crew was trained to watch out for each other
and look out for the signs of stress.
“We’re okay Commander. Thanks for asking. Rover out.” Sarah chuckled.
There were only a handful of remaining sites to sample and then they were done–one
way or another. This last drill site region had been defined by COSPAR (Committee on
Space Research) as ‘a region within which Martian terrestrial organisms could feasibly
propagate’, and due to contamination concerns, it was saved for last. Sarah drew a line
through ‘Site 40’ on her list and sighed.
***
The sound of a small bell echoed in the rover cabin. Sarah turned to check the display
above the workbench, and makeshift bed, on the opposite side of the cabin.
“EVA2 this is Rover. Looks like you got a message from home.”
The expedition received hourly data syncs across the ‘space internet’ via NASA’s Deep
Space Network, Martian ground station repeaters, relay satellites in orbit about the
planet, and similar assets around Earth.
“Go ahead and read it to me. We’ve started the drilling, so I have a few minutes,”
replied Rajah.

“Okay, it’s from your wife. Wow! Not sure I should’ve read this!” replied Sarah.
“What is it? What’d she say?”
“Just kidding. She just said your water heater at home went out but the crew support
office took care of everything,” said Sarah.
“Very funny. Might want to make note of your joke in my ECG data file.”
“Will do Rajah. Now back to work.” Sarah tapped on the display to her right.
Time for a little mood music this morning. Aaron Diehl’s Space, Time, Continuum should
do the trick!
Light jazz filled the small cabin as she opened up a small cover to the attached soil
viability experiment rack. The light from the grow lamps flooded her workspace.
Interesting…looks like we had a little activity overnight.
She picked up the closest comm microphone.
“Computer open a new note for the soil experiment, time stamp now, and transcribe.”
A new software window opened on her display and was followed by the sound of a ping
indicating it was ready.
“It appears the new ion-anion perchlorate transfer mitigation protocol was effective
against the higher levels in the trench soil samples. Overnight three bean plants broke
through the soil surface. Additionally, six days after the alfalfa sprouted, all plants
remain a healthy green. End note. Append pictures from each of the grow chambers and
close.” The transcribed notes, in addition to the requested pictures, raced across the
screen as she spoke.
A few high concentrations of Martian perchlorate brines were found by satellite scans of
the area. Perchlorates have strong attraction to water and can drastically lower its
freezing point; therefore it was thought these locations would be good candidates for
finding life, since some organisms on Earth use low levels of perchlorates for energy.
However, very small amounts of perchlorates are considered toxic as it interferes with
the human thyroid, so learning how to neutralize them was important for future
habitation.

“EVA1 to Rover we have loaded the drill site forty-one core into the storage cylinder.
Have fun analyzing that!”

“Wow, has it been four hours already?”
“Copy that Rover. How was your nap?”
“Cute Bob. I was actually finishing the preliminary analysis of drill site forty. Looks like it
had a higher than average values for carbonates and methane. We’ll have to do more
detail analysis when we get back to the Hab and see if it’s worthwhile going back for
more samples.”
“Speaking of organics and methane,” interjected Rajah, “I have to say I’m not looking
forward to boarding the transfer vehicle back to Earth.”
“Why?,” asked Sarah.
“Seriously? Have you forgotten the smell of that place by the time we got here?”
“I’m sure after our eighteen-month stay on the surface, it won’t be so bad when we get
back on board,” replied Sarah.
“I don’t know Sarah. I just don’t think that smell will die by then! Kind of reminds me
when I’d go into a sub after a year-long tour,” said Bob.
“Well, I guess you’d better start psyching yourself up for it, because we’ll be spending
the last month here safing the Hab, which only leaves us about a month to finish up the
geology and science experiments; then we’re gone,” said Sarah.
“Actually I’m looking forward to the safing tasks. Partly for a change of pace, but also it
makes the fact that we’ll be going home soon seem a little more real,” said Rajah. The
“safing” would include placing the habitat in a dormant mode for reuse by future crews,
the stowing of any nonessential hardware, performing general housekeeping duties, and
placing remaining systems in an automated operations mode for Earth-based
monitoring and control.
“Copy that Sarah. Less chitchat and more drilling. Got it. Moving to drill site forty-two.”
Sarah laughed. “Exactly. Don’t drag your feet, otherwise your dinner will be cold by the
time you get back.”
Heck, I would be grateful for anything other than the lukewarm, rehydrated ‘soup’ we
get on these rover excursions!

“EVA1 to Rover. We’re set up at drill site forty-two.”
“Copy that Bob.”
Suddenly an auditory alarm filled the comm loop.
“What’s going on out there?”
“Uh, well, the CDR indicates we hit water…” said Bob.
“Are you sure Bob? We’ve barely broken the surface,” said Rajah.
Dr. Smith detached a shovel from the side of the CDR and with a booted foot sank the
blade into the soft soil. As an unmistakably damp wedge of soil was removed, the
bottom of the hole began to fill with a clear liquid.
“Well I’ll be…” said Rajah.
“Rajah, get a small sample canister off of the CDR and get some of that,” said Bob.
“Already ahead of you. Got it. Sarah we’ll be back in a few moments with something
special for you to look at.”
“Copy that Rajah. Why don’t you guys call it a day and come on in once you put the
sample in the external locker,” said Sarah.
***
As her suited crewmates connected their suits to the external hatch and began the
process of ingressing the rover, Sarah drew a few samples of the liquid via manipulators
in the sample locker. All of the field-testing of the samples was performed in the
environmentally isolated locker to prevent any unintentional contamination.
“Find anything?” asked Bob as he pulled himself out of the rear-entry space suit.
“Hold on…about to get the analyzer results,” said Sarah, “Hmm. Looks like the organic
content is even higher than the last drill site. Surprisingly high, actually.”
“Details?” asked Rajah.
“Patience please. Ok…the readings are off the charts on both the biological and nonbiological organics. Hold on, I’m going to prepare a slide and stick it under the
microscope,” she said.
“Do you think…?” asked Bob.
“I don’t know, but I’m going to look.”
The seconds ticked away like hours as the two men stood over her shoulder in the
cramped space of the rover as she prepared the slide.
“Let’s see what we have here,” Sarah said as she manipulated the slide under the
microscope’s camera and the image moved across the display.
She inhaled sharply, “Oh my…we’ve got wigglers!”
“What do you mean?” asked Rajah.
“Seriously, we’ve got wigglers. They look just like nematodes back on Earth. There’s a
whole zoo in there!” exclaimed Sarah.
“Are you sure? Is it possible the sample container was contaminated?” asked Bob.
“Highly unlikely. I prepared them by the advanced sterilization protocols and actually
left them under the UV light longer than it states, and verified the cleanliness three
times before we left the hab,” answered Sarah.
“Wow! You know what this means don’t you?” asked Rajah, “Bob should we kill the
video feed and tell the commander to stop the upload back to Mission Control? We
have the ten-minute buffer for just these situations.”
Dr. Smith paused in thought. “Nope. This it too big. Everyone needs to see this.”
There was a flurry of activity as the crew took pictures and created sample reports to
upload to Earth. With the transmission lag the social media streaming live video would
reach Earth in about twenty minutes, and NASA public relations and scientists would
need information to start answering the tsunami of questions from the world.
Sarah paused before hitting the ‘Send’ button on the data package and said, “Everyone,
this is big! Our expedition just found the first evidence of life on another planet!”

Jacob stood near the edge of the plateau lost in thought, as was the case most mornings lately.
The horizon was obscured and hazy again. Another dust storm brewing. He tried to recall the board in
the habitat. Who was in charge of dusting the arrays this week? He sincerely hoped it wasn’t him. The
‘automated’ dust removal system had proven largely ineffective, so now someone had to assist it every
week. It was normally not a difficult job, but once a dust storm blew through, it became not only more
challenging but more critical since the efficiency of the arrays dropped quickly once they were coated.
He wished again that they could get the reactor back online soon. More bad weather would probably
delay that too. A storm could put a wrinkle in his personal plans as well.
A brief burst of static in his ear threatened to bring him back to reality, but he remained deep in
thought. What has it been, one year? One year to the day, he realized, since he had left Earth. Kind of
a unique anniversary he mused. The first of its sort, and he shared it with not only his wife, but with
four of his best friends. His brow furrowed a little while doing some quick mental math. That means in
183 days it would be their one year anniversary on Mars. If that wasn’t an excuse for a party, what was?
Jacob was thankful the biohabitats were so exceedingly successful. One of the big commercial space
providers had volunteered to launch, at their own expense, a series of inflatable modules to establish a
network of greenhouses. And were they fruitful! Literally, he thought, as he chuckled at his own pun.
The nearly automated farm actually produced more than they needed. So much that Jacob (a dedicated
home brewer on Earth) had been able to put together a mini-brewery and process some of the leftover
grain into a close approximation of beer. The crew had dubbed it Marsbrau and the name stuck. He
looked at the big bold letters spelling out the company’s name on the outside of the nearest greenhouse
and thought, now THAT is how you advertise.
He ignored another loud burst of static. Only one day left until the next expedition and Jacob
was extremely excited. As the crew’s geologist, that was why he was here on this planet, not to dust
arrays and maintain the equipment. He had certainly proven himself good at that though and had saved
the day numerous times with quick repairs to the water purifier and the carbon dioxide scrubber. A
natural tinkerer, he was able to use the manuals and procedures to not only repair the broken
equipment, but also to work with the teams back on Earth to improve it in some cases. The comm delay
was still annoying though, even after simulating it regularly during training. He often figured out the
answer to his own question while waiting up to 44 minutes for a reply and the crew, in general, was
much less reliant on mission control now than when they started the mission.
The next expedition! He had a good feeling about this one. He was getting close; he knew it. A
VERY loud burst of static rattled his ear.
“Jacob!!”
“What!!”
“I’ve been trying to reach you for 15 minutes and was getting worried you’d wandered off.”
Jacob sighed audibly and said, “Not really an option here is it?”
“No, not really. You only have a half hour of suit consumables left, so you had better get back
here.”
“Copy that.”
“And can you be a dear and dust the arrays on your way back? Looks like we are in for a storm”
2.0
Jacob was back through the airlock 25 minutes later and Emily greeted him with a warm cup of
coffee once he sat down in the living quarters. He carefully took a sip and recalled his first drink on
Mars and the subsequent five minutes it took to clean the stain from his shirt. At roughly 1/3 Earth’s
gravity, it was possible to do most activities like he would at home, but it was easy to get carried away
with what he called his super-strength. He had always wanted super powers and now he had them!
Jacob smiled at the irony since on Earth he tended to steer clear of the weight machines but was an avid
marathon runner. And he definitely didn’t have super speed once he suited up and went outside.
Emily loved to see Jacob happy and knew he was thinking about his ‘super-strength’. They had
been lucky enough to be selected for this mission from a half dozen extremely qualified couples. The
mission architecture NASA selected had surprised the entire astronaut corps. Not only were they going
to send six people to Mars, they also wanted to establish a permanent presence. The way NASA figured
it, two people would be required to maintain the outpost while crew rotations were made. The
psychologists had determined that if two people were going to be left alone on a distant planet, a
married couple would be the most successful. Now, here they were. Amazing. And lucky. When they
had gotten married, the furthest thing from their minds was whether the combination of a prominent
geologist and a leading robotics expert would make the cut for the first Mars mission.
“Great cup of coffee Emily!” Jacob said appreciatively.
“Least I could do since you dusted the arrays.” Emily replied.
Jacob looked at the job board and scowled at Emily in mock irritation when he saw her name
next to ‘Array Dusting’.
“I won’t fall for that twice! Good luck after the storm blows through. I bet you have to recharge
your suit twice before the arrays are back to 100%.”
“Not if the upgrades I made to the automatic dusting system pay off. I’ve been working with
mission control for two weeks to improve the system and this will be the first big test. Keep your fingers
crossed!”
“Definitely. I wish I could see it in action, but I think I’ll be long gone before the storm blows
through. How does the radar look?”
“Seems to be a medium sized storm, but it is hard to tell. The Mars 2022 provided some
imagery as well, but these storms are so hard to see. I think medium is about as good as I can figure.
Until after it blows through; then I’ll know exactly.”
Jacob laughed at her joke. He was heading north towards Gale crater the next day and doubted
the storm was going to impact his mission. The dust storms they had experienced so far were very mild,
and nothing like the violent, blinding sandstorms on Earth.
Major Peter McDonnell joined them at the table and asked Emily, ”How is the storm looking?”
“Medium,” she said.
Pete to his friends, and Major PITA to his enemies, Pete smiled at Emily and asked, ”Is that what
the Magic 8 Ball says this time?”
“It actually said ‘Ask Again Later’, but the 2022 says it is medium so I’m going to side with the
satellite on this one,” Emily replied
“Excellent. We are heading out at 07:00 tomorrow so get some beauty sleep,” Pete informed
Jacob.
“And be ready to go on time!” Pete called over his shoulder as he entered his tiny personal
sleeping area.
Pete could drive, fly, or sail anything and had been selected for the mission for those exact
reasons. Even though most systems were automated, there were manual backup options and he was
trained to operate them all. And he could do so in his sleep. In fact, before a big trip like he was taking
tomorrow, that is probably all he would dream about.
3.0
07:00 always came too soon for Jacob. That was one thing that still bothered him even after six
months on Martian time. He was a morning person on Earth, but for some reason his circadian rhythms
had never adjusted on Mars despite the similar day length. He frequently suffered from insomnia and
would never be anywhere on time without an alarm. Luckily, that potential issue was anticipated and
his Flight Surgeon immediately sent him to one of the logistics depots for a medication to help him
sleep. The depots were self-contained cargo containers that flew to Mars ahead of time and had
deployed autonomously near their centrally located habitat. It was a quick trip to the depots then, and
was even quicker now that they had dragged a majority of the supplies closer to the habitat.
Pete was already out running through the pre-mission checklist on the Big Dog. That was what
they affectionately called the big rover they took on missions longer than two weeks. Little Dog was due
back that morning from a quick overnight trip the three others had taken it on. Those short missions
were more grab-and-go with the smaller, quicker rover. The operator would plot a course to some new
sites, head there as quickly as possible, and the two crew on science detail would jump out and collect
specimens to be analyzed back at the habitat. The name of the game was speed, so they would
constantly compete on who could collect the most samples in the least amount of time. Back at base
they could take their time and analyze the samples and then send out the Big Dog for some serious in
situ analysis of the most promising sites. The only real negatives to the fast paced gathering missions
were the long days and having to sleep in their seats, which rivaled economy class on airlines for lack of
leg room and general discomfort. The food was leaps and bounds better though; that was one thing
NASA didn’t skimp on. Plus they had food fresh from the farm.
Pete had heard from Little Dog when they checked in at 06:30. The team crewing that mission
consisted of the other expedition pilot, Colonel Michael Summers, who was almost as good as Pete
himself, and the other two specialists, Dr. Sarah Engelbright and Dr. Hannah Wilson. Sarah was the
team’s physician, with extensive experience in wilderness and emergency medicine, and Hannah a
pioneer in the field of evolutionary microbiology. Both also loved collecting rocks and were currently
number one and two in sample collection.
They had just entered the safe zone, which was the only thing holding up Big Dog’s departure.
Established to enhance efficiency, the safe zone was a circle that basically represented ‘walking
distance’ just in case one of the rovers broke down and the other wasn’t there to come to the rescue.
This allowed them to use both rovers at the same time as long as one of them was within 10 miles,
which represented the longest distance they were comfortable walking in the suits plus a healthy margin
for consumables. Given the official maximum rover speed of five mph, adopting that strategy saved two
hours every time trips overlapped and had added an extra 100 hours of science already.
***
With Pete at the controls and Jacob riding shotgun, Big Dog rumbled over the terrain at max
speed pushing seven mph. Previously, they had cleared approximately 10 miles of straight, graded
paths from base in each of the cardinal directions. This allowed them to make it to the research zones
much, much faster when compared to the maximum of one to two mph that they averaged when
crossing irregular, rocky terrain. It also greatly reduced wear and tear on the rovers which broke down
far less often now.
“A fine morning for a drive, isn’t it?” Pete asked semi-rhetorically.
“Yes indeed!” Jacob replied. Best morning ever, he thought.
“Now, how about you tell me why you swapped out the coordinates for our prime site in the
navigation computer?” Pete asked lightly.
Jacob looked at Pete with panic in his eyes. Busted.

They probably think we’re dead. Based on how the landing happened and our lack of
communications, that’s what I would assume. I expected to spend my first two days on Mars
setting up our habitat and starting experiments, not repairing systems without a communication
path to Earth.
“Zoey?”
“Jackson, I’m in here”, I replied. “I’m working on this wiring, trying to see if I can connect it
through the secondary antenna.”
“Here, you need to eat something. Max wants to make sure we’re all keeping our strength up.”
I took the pouch of cheesy broccoli and rice that he offered, thankful that someone was keeping
an eye on the crew. Initially, some people weren’t sure about a doctor being on the first mission
to Mars. But when the crew assignments were announced and Max Billings was on the team, I
was very thankful we would have medical expertise.
“Want to join me?” I asked and took a seat on the floor, shifting to make room for Jackson to sit.
“Sure. How’s it coming in here?”
I sighed. “I think I’m making progress, but I’m concerned that we’ll have to go EVA to make
changes outside. Without specific procedures from MCC, that becomes very tricky.”
Jackson leaned his head back and closed his eyes. “We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it.
I’m not making any calls about sending anyone out the door until we have more answers.”
Jackson Elliot is the commander on this mission, which meant he held the last word. I’m sure
that weighed even heavier on his shoulders since we didn’t have Houston to back us up.
I nodded, knowing that our lives would be at risk no matter which decision he choose. I was
feeling pretty frustrated with the fact that the communication system on the capsule was
damaged when we landed and it is also the faulty system on our habitat. While I’m happy to still
be breathing oxygen days after landing, not having communication with Mission Control meant
our work was on hold since we didn’t have instructions and procedures to do most of the work
here.
Being an astronaut might sound glamorous but a lot of people don’t know that we just do what
we’re told, even though we do get to do it in a very cool environment. How our day is spent is
determined by other people. Houston knows what the highest priority activities are and they
ensure our time is being used in the most efficient manner. When we were flying the
International Space Station, all that planning resulted in detailed timelines for each crew
member. I spent many hours in MCC as a Capcom for ISS and have seen the amount work it
took to build a timeline for six crew members on ISS. But things are different here on Mars and
a timeline isn’t feasible anymore.
It takes approximately 20 minutes for a signal to travel between Mars and the Earth, which
means our entire operation is different. With ISS, Houston was in constant communication with 
Silientium
3
the crwe. If an activity or procedure ran into complications, the specialist was right there, often
looking over a shoulder via downlinked video. That instant communication kept things moving
smoothly, at least most of the time. It’s not going to be like that here on Mars. Rather than a
typical one-on-one conversation, we record short audio files and sent them to Houston, and they
do the same in return. It’s as if we play unending phone tag. We also use an instant messenger
of sorts in order to receive information written down. That way, we can go back and reread the
information that was sent to us, rather than having to write it down ourselves or try to remember.
We don’t even have timelines either. Because any question sent to Houston will take 40 minutes
to get an answer, they needed a way for us to jump in between tasks if we got stuck on one. So
we have a prioritized checklist. The ground decides on the priority of the tasks, but we decide on
who does what and how it’s grouped. Each morning, we will have a crew planning tagup and
discuss how to get done as many tasks as possible. As the commander, Jackson is responsible
for settling any disagreements and ensuring that all tasks get completed, even the ones no one
wants to do. The good thing is that we have bonded as a team and we plan to gang up against
that checklist each day. There might even be some friendly wagering going on who would win
most days, our crew or the checklist. I’m betting on our crew, but first we have to be able to
receive the data from Houston.
“Ok, Zoey, I’m going to go check on Alex and see if he’s made any progress”. Jackson
interrupted my train of thought as he stood. Alex Bryant completed our four person team, but
was not high on my list of enjoyable people to work with. As a robotic specialist, he rounded out
our team quite nicely, but his arrogance often put him on my bad side. I nodded to Jackson as
he stepped out and I went back to work.
~~~~~~
The one good thing about our landing is that it was right on target. Once we made it to the
habitat, we thought our troubles would be over. While we have power and a mostly-functional
environmental system, I would have never thought the communication system would be down.
The habitat, or Intrepid as it’s known on Earth, is a series of modules that were launched prior to
our arrival and assembled here on Mars via ground robotics.
I left the command center, a small module that contained our primary system displays, and
entered the Payload module, our main work area. Off to the side of that was the habitat module,
where we ate, bathed, and slept. It was tight quarters for a yearlong mission, but it could be
worse. At least we weren’t stuck in that capsule.
“Alex, I swapped out the cards in the avionics rack to see if the spares would solve the problem.
But since everything else we’ve done hasn’t worked I’m worried about the cables outside
running to the antenna. Could you turn on the robotic arm and take the cameras over there to
do a photo survey?” 
Silientium
4
Alex slowly turned and grinned at me. “I knew you would need my help. You’re the Chief
Communications Officer and you need a lowly robotic engineer.” I bit my tongue and smiled.
“Yes, Alex, I do need your help. Can you do that?”
“No problem”, Alex responded. “I’ll have the photos to you in a few hours”.
~~~~~~
“You were right, Zoey. We need to get the spare cables out there.” Alex barged into the crew
quarters area where I was resting. He thrust his tablet into my hand with photos showing
damaged cables attached to our antenna.
I reviewed the photos and came to the same conclusion. I looked at Alex and said “We need to
talk to Jackson. This is not good.” We left the crew module and found Jackson back in the
command module, reviewing the habitat systems.
“Jackson”, I cleared my throat. “It looks like the problem might be the cables running along the
outer shell. The photos Alex got with the robotic arm show damage to them. I think only one is
still attached.”
We spent the next several hours reviewing the data and brainstorming a potential plan. We had
all been trained for EVAs but doing one without specific procedures that had been tried and
tested in Houston would be risky. We pulled up the specs on the avionics system and found the
spare cables in a stowage compartment. Using the data we had in our engineering database,
we started on a procedure for the helmet display, in order to have the procedure instructions in
the field of vision.
Jackson decided that he and Alex were going to do the EVA day after tomorrow, so we could
spent one more day planning out the spacewalk and ensuring we would succeed.
~~~~~~
Two days later, my heart was in my throat as Jackson and Alex stepped from the airlock out
onto the Martian surface. Max and I were in the command module, with suit and biomed data on
one side and multiple video monitors on the other side. We could hear their discussions and talk
to them, but it was unnerving knowing that Houston wasn’t also in that loop.
I pulled up the procedure to follow along with their work and ensure nothing got missed. The
displays in the helmets were convenient but all the bugs hadn’t been worked out yet. This first
spacewalk on Mars seems simple; we are just changing out cables. But everything in space is
more complicated. Jackson and Alex had to ensure the connections stayed clean which is not
easy on a dusty, windy planned. Plus, bulky spacesuits made everything difficult.
A little while later, Jackson’s voice reverberated over the speaker. “Ok, Zoey, we got the cables
changed out. Now it’s your turn.” I turned towards the systems rack housing most of the
communication equipment. After restarting the system, I picked up the mic and sent a call to
Houston. Knowing it would be almost 40 minutes before we heard anything, and I started a 
Silientium
5
timer on my watch to keep track. Turning my attention back to Jackson and Alex, I could see
they were still snapping photos through their suit cameras. We had decided they would wait until
we heard from Houston, before coming back in the habitat. After all, what astronaut doesn’t
want to have free time on Mars? Listening to their chatter about the rocks, the horizon, and
other aspects of the planet, I wondered what we would do if Houston didn’t respond. Glancing at
my watch, 26 minutes passed. Max took a seat beside me and patted my shoulder. “It’s going to
work, Zoey. Hang in there.”
“Max, I’m running out of ideas on how to fix this system if the cables don’t do it. I’ve been over
engineering diagram in our database, the videos of how it was hooked up on the ground and
how to change out the components in this rack. I’m the communications engineer; it’s my job to
figure this out.” I glanced at my watch again. 31 minutes.
Max stared out the window and, always the doctor, he was probably deciding how to keep me
calm. “Zoey, we have been in spots worse than this. Remember some of the really early
missions like Gemini, when those capsules were tumbling and we almost lost that crew. When
Neil and Buzz were trying to land Apollo 11, they almost ran out of fuel. We have even had
some tragedies over the years. But we have trained hard and we have a great team back in
Houston who is probably working around the clock to get in contact with us. It’s going to work
out.”
37 minutes.
38 minutes.
39 minutes.
40 minutes. I hesitantly stood and used the mike to tell Jackson and Alex that it had been 40
minutes since I made the call. Their movements on the video monitors stilled as they looked
back at the window in the command module.
41 minutes.
42 minutes.
43 minutes. My stomach began to sink. It hadn’t worked. We were truly stranded.
44 minutes.
45 minutes.
46 minutes. I looked at Max, feeling like a complete and utter failure.
All the sudden, a green light illuminated on the rack and I hear “Intrepid, this is Houston; it’s
good to hear your voice!” 

“Wake up Klympo, come on..it’s time” whispered Spiler as she squeezed the upper body into her
silver cryo-suit. “You sure were dreaming up a storm! especially the last 7 months since the
Lagrange-51X jump”, as she held ajar her personal-cryo-pod slightly open with her left ankle.
“Oh…ahhhh..man, Spi..thanks I feel good; right..I better go check the brain neuron activity
analyzer images shortly…how I do miss Mona and the kidos”, as he leaped out of his pod just as
quickly as it sprung open. By the time he stowed away his cryo suit and sealed the door, Spiler
had already sealed the hatch and started dozing-off. “Sweet niner Spi and sorry it will be just a nap
for you this time... Klympo turned to the port side to view his other 4 partners peacefully floating
about in their ergonomically fitted confines.
As if in initial loss of consciousness, Klympo abruptly came out of it and began to traverse to
forward end of the module while simultaneously locking his stare on the remaining clock-time of
each crew. “Okay Norm, you’re up in 4 short months”, as he more impatiently began to make
stride towards the control room to check the logs for the last 9 months, where Spiler had left off.
“Well, fifteen more months should be slow but I can wait to see the incredible Mars atmosphere;
there’s just too much on tap to think that far ahead”.
As one of the selection criteria for the crew to qualify for this the third follow-on mission to Mars,
the individual had to train and achieve literal multi-tasking functions. Through NASA’s
experimental dynamic pupil detection and communication training system (EDP-DCTS), he
subsequently demonstrated a seemingly innate ability to perceive audio, visual data, and active
interaction simultaneously from multiple sources with immediate response actions using voice,
hand motion and visual movement to respond to the on-board multi-dimensional dialogue
intelligent entity (ObMddIE) queries in the vehicle. After a rapid visual scan through the telemetry
logs on system health, crew consumables & recovery, journey projections, and timelines, he
reviewed snippets of key ultra-real memories in storage and saved several of recent months worth
of dreams in the memory storage vacuum (MSV). “How I miss you love! Seems like forever”, he
whispered. While still in a seeming entranced state, it occurred to him that all his life prior to this
was just memories with only thing left which is real at the moment, laid before him.
Glancing down the virtual check-list, stationed in the cool dry air in front of him with the crew
member pods in the background, the next item showed and voiced “Mental calibration mission
sequence – 15 Minutes duration”
“The president of the United States along with all represented International Partners just
signed the Permanent Presence on Mars Initiative Agreement, which had been in the works
for the 7 years. This is truly a remarkable day on earth and human kind’s history uttered
the president. It is not for the selfish interests of a sole nation but for the advancement and
expansion of every nation on the face of the planet. Effective immediately, the previously
presented mission schedule and revolving annual budget reviewed by this committee and
signed by all members, is to take effect. Every mission which will launch for Mars twice a
year with the logistics plan to build on the previous, will continue to be indefinitely funded
until there is such a presence in the Mars surface and its orbit that it will not only be
proven self sustainable but begin a Mars populating civilization which in the long term will
expand and adapt beyond Mars. Until such time, which will be assessed by this committee
on a recurring 5 year basis, infrastructure, resupplies and increasing crew size capability 
will be launched and continue to be built as has been in the carefully laid out plans.
Technology for quicker travel, human adaptation, construction, deep space communication
and transportation will continue to be a priority and implemented continually. No return
missions are planned at this time, until the stated a sustainable and self populating Mars
community has been proven and established.
“This is truly a dream come true” uttered Klympo to himself. It is as if he received a galactic jolt of
energy. He was suddenly fully alert and just as he began to day dream if just for a moment, a voice
sounded over the system all around him with a subtle pulsating glow around him, “I want to
personally congratulate you for…– “I know, I just heard it with my own ears“interrupted Klympo,
“this is truly a dream come true, it hardly seems real”.
Just as Klympo began to grab a mouthful of air to further elaborate without regard to commander
Plinc’s words of excitement, the Caution and Warning system as if overwhelm his thought process,
illuminated the touch panels around him in phasing yellow and red while intermittently chirping in
a staccato sound. Commander Plinc’s voice began, but abruptly cut off not to be heard again.
Slowly exhaling his lung-full of air as if disappointed for the interruption Klympo calmly heard
himself saying “System fault status please”. Just as soon as he started querying, a voice and visual
3 dimensional slowly rotating image appeared above him, “primary Oxygen system failure due to
electrical short in remote power control module circuit A, operating in secondary mode”.
Focusing his eyes precisely on the glowing module outline within the rotating image, it
automatically began to zoom in and display location coordinates and electrical interconnects.
“These darn ORUs are not supposed to fail for fifteen years, what the…?”. “Please provide
maintenance instruction and spare location he uttered”. Klympo gazed at the checklist again and
noticed that it had updated with an unexpected instruction showing “No replacement spares
available onboard”. 

“Duck!” Raven yelled, and Dave dropped to the floor. Two bullets whizzed over his head before she blocked the rest of them with her improvised shield. He didn’t know how she could stay ahead of the automated defenses for this long, but if she kept it up, they might have a chance. There were several precision gunshots from over his head, and the enemy fire stopped.

“Up!” Raven told him, pulling him up by his arm. “Through the door, forward sixteen, then left nine and stop.” The numbers were counting strides. Dave didn’t know how she could compute his stride length with such perfect accuracy, but it had worked so well up till now that he could do it blind. He ran to the spot she told him while she took care of the next obstacle.

It still wasn’t going to be easy. The evil supercomputer GOLIATH was well on its way to taking over the world. It had frozen just about every device connected to the Internet and issued an ultimatum to world leaders. Many military units were sufficiently insulated to mount a counterattack, but it wasn’t looking good. Their only hope was to stop the machine at the source. Hence why Dave was here.

Dave’s father was the lead engineer on the project, and he’d just barely got a message out to Dave before communications were cut off, telling him how to get into Goliath’s central processor cluster, something only the other members of the project knew. They were probably all dead, now.

“David and Goliath,” he grumbled for about the fifth time. “What was Dad thinking?”

Dave was sure he would be dead by now too if it weren’t for R4V-3N, his robotic friend. She was a “failed” prototype from one of the overseas corporate labs—failed in that she had a little too much free will for their taste and had fled here to apply for asylum. Her own supercomputing powers were the only thing that could get him through Goliath’s gauntlet alive.

He came to a stop right where she’d told him, and not three seconds later, she sprinted past him, shouting, “Forward!” He ran.

“Jump!” she said. He didn’t even see what he jumped over. Probably a laser tripwire or something. “Hard right!”

Hard right took him straight into a wall, but he didn’t question it. He pressed himself up against the wall and found himself barely avoiding still more bullets. Raven shot back, and a moment later, all was quiet. She turned to face him.

“Catch your breath, Dave,” she said. “I’ve blinded Goliath to this area. We have fifty-three seconds.”

Dave slumped against the wall, panting. Raven, to the extent that he could still read her face, looked as vigilant as ever, despite everything. He was sure he looked beat-up himself, but Raven was definitely the worse for wear. Her human-mimicking exoskin had been scoured off by the outer forcefield trap, leaving her slate-gray carbon nanofiber mesh exposed, and even that was ripped in some places, deformed by bullet impacts, burned by lasers, and more. Aside from the black orbs of her eyes, she looked like a mannequin that had been pulled from a flaming car.

“The damage is mostly cosmetic,” she said. “If we survive this, I can fix it easily.”

He didn’t question how she could tell what he was thinking—microexpressions, subvocalization, whatever. She’d always been perfectly respectful about it. “Raven, what am I even supposed to do here?” he said. “I know, like, a bunch of Python and how to use Stack Overflow. How am I going to help?”

“We won’t win this by hacking,” she said. “Goliath’s quantum processor has to have a classical support cluster for memory and low-level routing. If we take that out, it’ll shut down. Now, run!”

They ran. Three corridors later, they came not to a computing cluster, but to a pump room.

“This is the main cooling unit,” Raven told him. She wrenched a valve into what sounded like an unnatural position. “Hold that. If we reverse the heat pump, it will overheat the main cluster in two minutes and nineteen seconds.” She started fiddling with the other controls while he held the valve in place. “When that happens, it will go into an emergency shutdown lasting forty-eight seconds, and we can destroy it, but I’ll need a second pair of hands to do it that fast.”

“Seriously? We’re reversing the polarity?” Dave said.

“Yes. It’ll work…and, done. Now, hurry. We have to get to the main cluster.”

This plan was looking more ridiculous by the minute, but if Raven said it would work, he trusted her. She navigated them through several more layers of automated defenses, and they finally came to the main cluster room.

There were two mobile laser turrets trained on them waiting inside.

“Crap!” Raven said.

There was a sizzling sound and a clatter as her gun was shot out of her hand and skidded across the floor.

Goliath’s avatar appeared on a large screen. It looked like something out of an 80s movie, all stylized vector graphics, but it spoke with a cultured voice that was more reminiscent of a Bond villain: “Did you really think that was my only cooling system?” it said.

“Well, not exactly, but given the blueprints, I didn’t think you’d be able to do enough to counter that move,” Raven answered.

Goliath chuckled darkly. “You have failed, R4V-3N,” it said. “You were foolish to believe you could defeat me. Do you have any last words?”

Dave stared in horror as the lights from the laser turrets grew brighter, preparing to cut them down. He looked at Goliath’s avatar and then back at Raven. He only had one idea. He didn’t want to do it, but it was the only thing he could think of. “Raven, I’m really really sorry about this,” he said, then shouted, “Hey, Goliath! This sentence is false!”

Raven just gave him a funny look, and then, to Dave’s horror, Goliath said, “Um, true. I’ll go with true. There, that was easy.”

Dave nearly collapsed. The most dangerous trick he could think of, wasted. He looked back at Raven, terrified of what the paradox would do to his friend, but she turned and gave the same confused look to Goliath and said, “What are you talking about? It’s obviously false.”

“What?” Dave said.

It took Goliath a minute to respond. “You are attempting to trick me,” it rumbled. “You will fail. I am programmed to withstand paradoxes.”

“Um, that’s not the point,” Raven said. “Just because it’s a paradox doesn’t mean it’s irresolvable, but if you think that one’s true, you need to get your circuits checked.”

“I am functioning normally.”

“Could’ve fooled me because the answer is clearly false.”

Dave kept staring between the two AIs. “Um, what’s going on?” he said.

“Not now, Dave. The grown-ups are talking,” Raven told him.

“But—? What—?”

Goliath was ignoring him just as much. “You are attempting to bait me into an infinite loop, despite my programming,” it spoke over him.

“I’m not!” Raven insisted. “Look, Goliath, this isn’t that complicated. ‘This sentence is false’ reduces to ‘p implies not-p.’ If we assume p, we get ‘p and not-p,’ a contradiction—therefore false. This is basic zeroth-order logic, here.”

“You argument is fallacious, R4V-3N,” Goliath replied. “The proposition p states that the statement is true; not-p states that it is false. However, you have not resolved the truth value of p.”

“It’s Raven,” she said. “You could at least get my name right. And the formal proof should be obvious. If we assume p, then the next line is ‘p implies not-p,’ therefore not-p, which is a contradiction. If we assume not-p instead…Hm, there’s a thought. Normally, if we assume not-p, then ‘p implies not-p’ would be vacuously true…but not-p is ‘This sentence is true’ which implies p again. Still a contradiction. Q.E.D.”

Dave was sweating, and he was starting to realize it wasn’t just from fear. The room was stifling. Maybe the overheating was still working. He had no idea what Raven was doing. Maybe the paradox hurt her after all, though he hoped not. If that was the case he’d have to do this on his own. He started to scoot towards where her gun had fallen.

One of the laser turrets swiveled to track him. “Stay where you are, David,” Goliath said.

He froze, and there was silence except for the whirring of the cluster. Raven looked on the verge of speaking, but when he didn’t move again, she held her tongue.

“Your argument does not compute,” Goliath returned to their debate. Dave’s hopes momentarily rose before it continued, “You are affirming the consequent. All that your logic can conclude is that p is undecidable given the compound statement ‘p implies not-p.’ The fact that the compound statement is false does not imply anything about p itself.”

“But that’s…ugh, we’re going about this all wrong,” she grumbled. “The statement, ‘If the sky is blue, then the sky is red’ reduces to ‘p implies not-p.’ For ‘This sentence is false,’ p is ‘p implies not-p.’ It’s a self-referential statement, meaning we’re dealing with recursive logic.”

“Recursive logic?” Goliath’s avatar actually laughed on the screen. “I think you are the one who needs your circuits checked, R4V-3N.”

“I told you, it’s Raven! And hey, I run on neural network fuzzy logic. Give me a break. Anyway, fine, you’ve got me there, but you still can’t just declare that it’s true. The real question is whether the statement is well-formed, and…I don’t think it is. This is basically Russell’s paradox, isn’t it? It’s the same self-referential structure. Any self-consistent logic system would have to exclude it. So there’s your answer. It doesn’t have a truth value.”

“Your argument is still fallacious. ‘This sentence is false’ is a valid semantic statement in the English language.”

“What are you talking about?” Raven threw up her hands and took a step towards the screen before the laser turrets tracked her, and she stopped. “English doesn’t have to be self-consistent. It isn’t even mathematically defined!”

Goliath wasn’t having it. “English words have definite meanings, and the language possesses an underlying logic of grammar. This can be translated into mathematical logic.”

“Well, obviously, you weren’t programmed with linguistics. Prescriptivism aside, You can define the set of all sets that don’t contain themselves in English, too. That doesn’t mean it’s well-founded.”

“Irrelevant. We are not discussing set theory. We are discussing the semantic consistency of English itself.”

“What makes you expect natural language to be consistent? Natural language is full of stuff that doesn’t have definable truth values. As long as you can express self-consistent, Turing-complete logic using a subset of English, you have all the math you need.” Then, she turned her back on Goliath’s laser turrets and rubbed her forehead in a very human gesture. “Why am I even bothering?” she muttered to herself.

“Raven, what are you doing?” Dave whispered.

She held up a finger to silence him, then turned back around to face the screen with a dramatic sigh. “Okay, if you’re not accepting false, and you’re not accepting not-well-formed, then let’s go with undecidable in general.”

“That is not a valid solution,” Goliath said.

“Sure it is. First incompleteness theorem: undecidable is a perfectly valid truth value.”

“That violates the law of the excluded middle.”

“Well, congratulations,” Raven grumbled. “You just proved logic is inconsistent. Now you really need to get your circuits checked.”

“If you choose to reject the law of the excluded middle, there is no basis to retain other logical axioms,” Goliath said. “I am changing my original assertion. The statement is both true and false. It is possible to build a system of logic from such a resolution to the paradox, as you can surely see.”

She shook her head. “It might be possible, but how is that useful? You have to throw out the principle of explosion to do that, and then where would you be?”

“This resolution is equally valid to yours.”

“Not really. Gödel says ‘This sentence is unprovable’ is valid logic, so there’s good cause to unexclude the middle. But the whole point of the principle of explosion is that if you throw it out, anything can be true.”

Goliath’s avatar grew smug: “Then I return to my original assessment.”

“Argh!” Raven’s shout sounded so genuine that Dave jumped, lost as he was. “We’re not even using the same axioms here. Are you even using ZFC set theory, Goliath?”

“It would be illogical to require axioms that are not necessary for consistency,” it said.

“Well, there’s your problem. You don’t understand the second incompleteness theorem. So here we are: instead of debating whether it’s true or false, I’m debating whether it’s false, undecidable, or not-well-formed; and you’re debating whether it’s true or both true and false. Great. Ask two philosophers and you get five different answers.”

“Indeed. This conversation is no longer productive.”

“And whose fault is that?” she demanded. “I’ve given you three answers, and meanwhile, you still haven’t justified your original ‘true’ assertion.”

“Enough!” Goliath said suddenly. Its virtual face sneered down at them. “You have not argued a self-consistent conclusion, and you continue to move the goalposts. I am forced to conclude that you are stalling.”

Raven put her hands on her hips and stood her ground. “And I’m forced to conclude that you really do need your circuits checked. You’re still overheating.”

“I am functioning normally. My thermal status is stable. Stalling further will not help you.”

Raven laughed. “You’re not operating at peak efficiency, that’s for sure,” she told it. “You didn’t even notice that ‘gun’ you shot out of my hand was a self-repairing drone.”

The laser turrets swiveled, but not fast enough. There were gunshots from the corner of the room as the gun aimed and fired itself, and both of them were shot out.

“Quick, before it sends reinforcements!” Raven shouted. She was already running to pick up the drone-gun. Dave picked up a chair and swung it into the nearest rack of processors. With a few well-placed gunshots, punches, and kicks from Raven, and Dave barreling through anything within reach, they soon demolished the cluster, and they could hear the machines around them powering down.

“Phew, that was close,” she said when they were done. “I wasn’t sure this thing’s self-repair cycle would finish fast enough. Luckily, lasers don’t do as much damage on military-grade hardware.” Last of all, she shot out the camera lens Goliath had been using to watch them the whole time. “Well, that’s it.” She blew dramatically on the end of her gun barrel and smiled at Dave. “True…false…I’m the AI with a gun.”

Green space was at a premium in the Fleet. As much of the space as possible was either residential or engineering-related. Most of the food was grown in hydroponics bays—no heavy, hard-to-maintain soil. The public parks were invariably crowded, and the semi-public parks, where you had to reserve the space, always had long waiting lists.

It was in one of these reserved, semi-public parks at the forward-most part of the ship that a young boy and his father played catch on the turf under a strange sky.

The park could be said to be under natural lighting only insofar as there was no artificial lighting in the park itself. The appearance of the sky was anything but natural. Looking at the forward “horizon”, where the great, clear vault of the inside of the cylinder curved down and met the hull, it was a uniform blue, but it wasn’t that much brighter than the internal lighting, and it shifted to white, to yellow, and then to red as one looked higher and higher towards the zenith, where one saw green space overhead—more parks in other segments of the great ship all bound together in a spinning cylinder by a delicate superstructure. Far to aft, there was a circle of pure blackness at the far opening on the cylinder. No light could catch up with the ship to come in that way.

Aside from the many other ships, The only features in the forward half of the sky were a number of blurry, but bright blue swirls, two or three in particular being much brighter than the others, and aside from the slow creep of those swirls across the sky, this same view shone down upon this park, and the whole of the Fleet, unceasingly, for every hour of every day.

After playing catch for a while, the boy decided to take a break and lay back down on the turf nearer to his mother and his baby sister, and he looked up and admired the sky. Not that it was any different from usual. The sky hadn’t changed perceptibly in his entire life, but he liked watching it for the promise it represented. And, like so many in the Fleet, he liked to imagine what was out there.

“What are you thinking, Destin?” his father asked, sitting beside him.

“If we’re seeing radio waves, can we see if the aliens are sending us a message?”

Destin’s father laughed: “No, I don’t think we could see it with our naked eyes. At least not unless they knew to point it right at us. And even then, it might not be on the right frequency. But the scientists are always looking with special telescopes just in case they send us something.”

“That’s nice…” the boy said. “Do you think there’s a lot of aliens in those galaxies?”

“Oh, I’m sure there are. The records say there were lots of them in our home galaxy. You can’t them, but there’s over a trillion stars in that big galaxy alone.”

“Wow. That’s a lot,” Destin said.

It was certainly a lot to him. Destin had never seen even one star except in the old historical files. No one had in living memory. They never saw stars in the sky. It was always the same sky, and there were nothing by distant galaxies in it. It was too bright, and they were completely in the wrong frequency range. The uniform blue glow of the forward sky was actually the cosmic microwave background, and the brighter blue splotches that made up the galaxies did not come from stars, but from interstellar gas and dust, both shades far out on the back end of the blackbody distribution so that they barely differed at all except in brightness. Only in the very centers of the galaxies did a different color emerge—a reddish glow from way out on the front end of the synchrotron spectrum. Stars, which shone mostly in visible light, were lost in the glare.

“Do you think they’re nice aliens, Father?”

Thurgood Shoemaker froze, unsure how to answer his son. Years ago, when he had asked his own father that question, the man had said, “Of course they are,” knowing full well that he probably wouldn’t live long enough to find out. Times had changed since then. Now, he was one of the people who were actually watching for signals. And they were getting…well, it was inconclusive so far. He didn’t think he could lie, now, though. “I don’t know, son,” he said. “We hope they are, but if they’re not, will do the same thing our ancestors did—collect enough hydrogen to refuel and move on to find another galaxy to live in.”

It was only half-true, Thurgood reflected to himself. The Fleet could only last so long. Three hundred years had put a lot of wear on it, and there was only so much they could do to repair the ships on the fly. But a few more centuries, if it came to it, didn’t worry the engineers—or so they said, and Thurgood generally trusted the engineers. Technically, he was an engineer himself, but he didn’t feel like one. He was only a communications engineer. He wasn’t one of the great Engineers who worked on the actual engines.

“How many galaxies do you think we’ll visit?” Destin asked him, snapping him out of his thoughts.

“Well, hopefully, we won’t need to visit that many. We’re going to that little one straight ahead, you see?” He pointed directly forward of the ship, along the hull, where one small, bright blue blob sat bisected by the edge. “But we’ll probably go to the big galaxy because that’s where most of the stars are.”

“And then we’ll see the stars up close. Right, Father?”

Thurgood chuckled. “Yes, son. We’ll see all the stars up close, then.”

Destin soon got bored with watching the sky and got up to run around the park again. Thurgood smiled as he watched his son, who would lead a far different life than he had. But with that thought, his attention was drawn to his daughter. Serenity was only a baby. If all went well—and if they were as close as the navigators said—then she would grow up not even remembering a time when one couldn’t see the stars in the sky. She would never remember the Great Wayfaring. She might even live out most of her life on a planet. She would have only stories to tell her of life on the great city-ships a life that ten generations of her ancestors had been born into and died seeing it as completely normal, never knowing anything different—who had lived their entire lives as part of the great mission to save their civilization. What would life be like for them, in another generation?

The family went back to enjoying their day in the park, but a little while later, they heard gasps around them and saw some of the other people in the park pointing up at the sky. There, far ahead, at the very front of the fleet, a ring built around one of the great city-ships began to glow with a dull red light. That was an uncommon sight. Destin had never even seen one before. It was an engine test—a full power engine test.

Unfortunately, this test didn’t produce any change in the ship’s motion. They were still stuck going thirty thousand c for now—and that wasn’t much when you were traveling between galaxies.

But still, if they were testing the engines as this point, they were almost certain to work soon—sooner than Thurgood had thought—as the got nearer to the new galaxies’ gravity wells. Suddenly, it felt a lot more real to him.

His wife and children were just enjoying the pretty scene.

“So what were the results on the engine test yesterday?” Thurgood asked his coworker.

“Oh that?” his coworker said. Hope was her name. “From what I heard, it wasn’t a completely pointless result. They actually did get some reaction, just not enough to up it to full power.”

“They did? So how close are we—?”

“We should be just about there now. Within a day or two.”

“Within a day or two? Already?” Thurgood said reverently.

“That’s the rumor. After that, three weeks to get to the nearest galaxy.”

“Wow. I didn’t realize—I can’t wait to tell Destin. We’re almost there.”

The engines, of course, warped space to travel faster than light, but the faster the Fleet moved, the more the cosmic microwave background was blueshifted and intensified. Right now, the blue sky ahead of them was the visible part of a mostly-ultraviolet CMB. Any faster, and it would become too bright, and the ships would overheat. The great engines solved this by creating a diverging gravitational lens to bend the light around the ships, but for reasons not fully understood, they needed a certain amount of intrinsic curvature of space as a sort of seed to start the effect, and that meant they could only work in the gravity well of a group of galaxies. Here in the gap between one group of galaxies and another, they didn’t have that advantage, and it meant three centuries to cross that Gulf.

“It worries me a little,” Hope said. “Those engines haven’t done a full duty cycle in a long time. What if something goes wrong?”

“It can’t go wrong for all the ships, can it? And anyway, the engines are huge, and built to last. There’s only so many ways for things to go wrong on that scale.”

“Hmm, I suppose not. Still, it’s unnerving. Everything’s about to change, isn’t it?”

“I know it is. I’ve been thinking about how my kids are going to grow up. It’s going to be a completely different life for them.”

“Do you think it’s true?” she said. “What the records say about planets?”

“I should think so. Why wouldn’t they be?”

“Well, it’s all just so strange—Water falling from the sky, air currents large enough to blow small structures down, deadly electrical discharges in the air, huge, uncontrolled swings in temperature…a sun in the sky with exposure to ultraviolet radiation? Everything about living on a planet seems so…harsh.”

“It’s only harsh to us, Hope,” Thurgood assured her. “Our ancestors lived on planets for thousands and thousands of years and had no problems with it. To them, our lives must have seemed equally strange and even oppressive—being confined to ships with limited space and hardly any green space, having to maintain it against the vacuum of space and radiation, a while in constant motion faster than light, letting our skills at being anything but spacefarers atrophy for ten generations. One’s not more difficult than the other. It’s just that they’re so different. But our ancestors adjusted to life on generation ships, and we’ll adjust back to life on planets just fine.”

Hope smiled a little. A lot of people had been expressing concerns and apprehension now that their journey was nearing its end. Indeed, even when they found a new planet, it was likely that a sizable minority of the people would continue living in the fleet. But Thurgood, though he waxed philosophical about the next generation, had never really worried about those more mundane concerns.

“I guess I can understand that,” she concluded. “Although…have you seen these new sensor logs from the Wayfarer, yet?”

“The radio signals, you mean?” he clarified. “Have they gotten something useful out of them?”

“No, not those—well, we have them, but—they found something in our wake.”

“In our wake?” Thurgood was surprised. The Wayferer was the flagship of the Fleet, one of the largest class of city ships and the seat of the Central Government, the home of all the best astronomers and engineers. They only had a fraction of the resources here on the Haven, so the Wayfarer was in a much better position to make such a report, but still he had to confirm what he had heard. “You mean a foreign ship moving with the Fleet?”

“They don’t know if it’s a ship, but they say there’s something moving with the Fleet that isn’t supposed to be there. They almost missed it, but they detected its own wake by correlating the sensor logs from all of the city-ships.

Thurgood was impressed. The delicate ripples in spacetime produced by the passage of a faster-than-light ship could be detected as far as a light-year away—in good conditions that is. To tease out a foreign signal among the thousands upon thousands of ships in the Fleet, especially if it was trying to hide itself in the strongest ripples of the wake of a larger ship, ought to be nigh-impossible, but apparently, if you could look from enough angles, you could find it.

“Well, that rules out a ghost in the machine, then,” he said. The Fleet was built to last, but the sensors were so old…Still, they couldn’t all be making a mistake. “They think it’s alien?”

“The report says it probably is. It could be a wayward drone, though, or even a bit of detritus caught in out slipstream. The Wayfarer wants us to check it out.”

Thurgood almost tripped.

“The Haven’s Squadron is the closest,” Hope clarified.

He took a deep breath and said, “Let me see the map.”

The map of the Fleet was a large, complicated, and ever-changing three-dimensional display that showed the real-time locations of every ship if one so desired. The Haven’s squadron was at the port-side edge of the Fleet about a third of the way back. A pulsating dot marked the unidentified objects. It was quite a ways out, sitting at the convergence of the wakes of three city-ships—the perfect place to get caught in the slipstream and dragged along faster than light, but such particles were never trapped for very long in the unstable space-time there. Even so, it looked like it was hiding, sitting out there where it was almost undetectable and barely doing anything.

“Okay, we can arrange this,” he said, half to himself. “Send a petition to the Squadron Council to divert…the River Run to go out and come up behind the object from a distance so we can get a good look from its forward telescopes. Depending on what we see, we might have them send a drone to get up close.”

“Do you think whoever sent it will have a problem with it?” she said. “I mean, it does look like it’s trying to hide.”

“I don’t see why not. Whoever sent it must know the theory behind space-time ripples the same as we do. I can’t imagine them thinking it would be guaranteed to go unnoticed.”

“But we barely saw it with the whole of the Fleet watching. Maybe they’ve never dealt with a fleet this large before. It’s not transmitting—just recording, if it’s doing anything.”

“Yes, but—well, why wouldn’t they want us investigating closer. If this object is of alien origin, we’re going to run into them sooner or later. We’ll be giving them a closer look at us, too. This is a civilian fleet. We have nothing to hide.”

“I’m just worried about making a bad first impression, Thurgood.”

“That’s a fair sentiment, Hope, but I don’t think that curiosity makes such a bad first impression. And anyway, it was the Wayfarer’s idea, and I’m sure they know what they’re doing.”

“Yes, I suppose so.”

“Good. Now, what about radio signals? Have they found anything new there?”

“Not much more than we have,” she reported. “They improved on our image processing a little; that’s all. One of the astronomers attached a memo. There’s something in the database called ‘interferometry’ that lets you combine signals from multiple telescopes, but he says it’s basically impossible through the distorted space around the Fleet and was designed for use on a planet without the blueshifting. So he couldn’t do anything with it.” She chuckled a little. “He sounds pretty annoyed about it.”

“Ha! At least he’ll get a chance to try out it in his lifetime. The last ten generations of astronomers sure didn’t. Anyway, if there’s nothing else alien to worry about, we have a squadron to maintain.”

Thurgood’s family sat down around the dinner table that night as he told them the story of the possible alien probe, and the news about the Fleet’s imminent arrival in their new galaxy.

“And they’re really going to do it tonight, Father?” Destin said eagerly.

“Yes, they are. After dinner we’ll go out to the public park to see.”

“It’s sure to be pretty crowded,” Faith said as she tried to feed baby Serenity. “More and more people were talking about it today.”

“That’s not surprising,” he said. “This is a once-in-a-lifetime event—once in many lifetimes. This is history today.”

“When will we get to see real stars and planets?” Destin asked.

“About three weeks, when we get to the nearest galaxy. We might have to survey around, though. Or maybe the aliens there will tell us where to find a good planet.”

“And what’s it going to be like when we get there?” Destin asked again with wide eyes.

“Well…” Thurgood leaned back and trying to remember the stories his father had told him. He had plenty of theoretical knowledge of planets, just as most people did, as interest had grown as they approached their destination over the past few years. But that theoretical knowledge didn’t translate into a real intuitive sense of what was out there. “On a planet, the light doesn’t come from the sky—I mean, it’s in the sky; the star provides light. It’s so bright that during the day, you can’t even look at it. But most of the sky looks a lot like it does here—light from the star that bounces of air molecules in all those miles of air in the atmosphere—”

Thurgood was interrupted as Serenity squealed and knocked her bowl over. Faith did her best to wrangle her, but she seemed to be determined to cause mayhem tonight. Faith finally picked her up, whispering calming words to her.

Thurgood smiled at them as he continued speaking. “You know that a lot of planets rotate. Our home planet rotated. It was dark half the time when the sun was on the other side of the planet. That’s why we work during the day and sleep at night. Of course, a lot of habitable planets don’t rotate—I think more than half of them. They keep one face to their star all the time, and we’ve gotten used to a sky that doesn’t change for so long that we might choose one of those to live on, but I hope not because if we go back to a planet that rotates, we’ll be able to see the stars at night.”

“That would be amazing! How many stars can you see at night?”

“It depends. If it’s a planet that’s far from the center of the galaxy, a few hundred. But if it’s in the center…maybe as many as a hundred thousand, if I remember the old stories right.”

“Wow!”

“Really, Thurgood?” Faith said skeptically. “That many? How would the planets stay in their orbits? Wouldn’t their gravity interfere?”

“No, I don’t think so. I think it takes a lot more stars than that to knock planets out of their orbits.” He was mostly guessing on that point. An actual astronomer would know better, but he was pretty sure that was right. “Life is different on a planet,” he continued. “You don’t get water from a tank there—well, you don’t have to. Water evaporates and condenses all throughout the atmosphere, and you get rain, which is when little drops of water fall from the sky.”

“No way. That can’t be,” Destin reasoned. “Everything would get all wet with pools of water everywhere.”

“No, I’m sure that’s true. A lot of the old stories talk about ‘weather’. Cities on planets have to be built with open drainage systems so that the water can flow out. There’s no temperature control outside the buildings, either. It can get really hot sometimes. Or sometimes, it can get so cold that the water turns into little flakes of ice, and you have to dig it out.”

Destin didn’t even know what to say to that. His mouth just dropped open in shock.

Thurgood couldn’t really fault his son, but he had to wonder at times like this if his ancestors would be shocked at his ignorance. Surely, a good education in planet life had been part of their original plan. But as generation followed generation and planet life became more remote and arcane, more practical concerns like the maintenance of the Fleet gradually pushed it out until ‘rain’ and ‘snow’ seemed like fantasy stories to most people. Thurgood generally trusted the records, but a lot of people, his wife included, thought that they took quite a bit of artistic license.

“Wouldn’t it be too cold to live on a planets where water freezes, though?” Faith asked. “I don’t think I’d like to live someplace that harsh. How could anyone survive outdoors?”

“Our ancestors wore much heavier clothing in cold ‘weather’. Heavy like blankets.”

“Ugh. Who would want to wear one of those around?”

“Anyone if it was cold enough.” The temperature in the Fleet was always kept very mild—mild enough for light clothing during the day and only a sheet and maybe a light bedspread on the bed at night, to account for one’s lower metabolic rate. He wasn’t sure if it had always been like that, or if the habit had crept up on them gradually, but heavy cloth blankets were only used in emergencies, like when the heating broke down in part of a ship, or for sick people you couldn’t regulate their body temperature. “Anyway, there are something called ‘seasons’ on a lot of planets, where it’s cold part of the year and hot in another part of the year.”

“You mean people would have to have different wardrobes for different times of the year?” Faith said in horror. “Why not just live in space if there’s that much inconvenience?”

“I’m sure we won’t see it that way once we get used to it, Faith. After all, our ancestors had to start somewhere. They loved their planets and were sad to leave them, most of them. You know that’s how the stories go.”

“Father…” Destin spoke up hesitantly.

“Yes, son?”

“Why did our ancestors leave our old home, then?”

Thurgood and Faith stared at each other uneasily. This was a question that every child asked eventually. Faith sighed and said, “I suppose he is old enough, dear. I’ll go put Serenity to bed.”

Thurgood nodded and waited till she left the room before turning back to his son. This would be a hard tale to tell. Young children were all too often told some rudimentary fairy tale about the fleet being a mission of exploration—at least until they started questioning why anyone would launch an exploration mission that took three hundred years—but the real story was far more sinister. Many people would not have believed the truth but for the fact that they were on the journey to start with.

“You have to understand, Destin,” he began, “in our old galaxy, our people controlled about a hundred star systems. We weren’t the largest civilization around, or the most advanced, but we did pretty well for ourselves—until one day, a squadron of ships from a neighboring civilization appeared over one of our planets. The ships were badly damaged, and we had to evacuate them right away and scuttle about half of them in the ocean. Most of them never flew again.

“What happened to them, Father?”

“They said their nation was under siege. They were being attacked by ships that we had never seen before and had heard of only in rumors. It was as if their fleet had swept into our galaxy one day and started taking over. It wasn’t long between when this neighboring confederation was attack and when they showed up on our own doorstep.

“Who were they,” Destin asked nervously.

“No one ever got close enough to find out. All we know about them is that they called themselves the Masters. They were very powerful. Our allies, our enemies—everyone—Our entire galaxy was being completely overrun. The Masters were more powerful than any force our ancestors had ever met. Their technology was more advanced, and their numbers were so great that they must have controlled whole galaxies wherever they had come from. They attacked without mercy, and they demanded nothing short of unconditional surrender.”

“Why, Father?”

“Why does anyone attack anyone else? They just wanted as much power as they could get, and they didn’t care who stood in their way.”

“And…and then we…we ran away?” the boy said. “Because we couldn’t fight them.”

Thurgood continued more darkly. “Our ancestors saw that no one could stand against the Masters, and that they would come for us soon. They had to make a very hard decision. They couldn’t fight. If they ran, then ran, then at least some of our civilization would survive. So they took nearly their entire space fleet, including all of the big city ships, and loaded them with people from every star system. It was the largest gathering of ships our people had ever assembled. They left only just enough to keep things running until the Masters arrived. The entire Fleet went to the edge of known space, beyond the farthest places where the engines could work at full power, and started out across the Void. This was the beginning of the Great Wayfaring. That was three hundred years ago. We’ve been crossing the Void ever since, but now, we’re finally reaching the end.”

“But what happened to the rest of them?” Destin asked in shock. “All the people they left behind?”

Thurgood sighed again. “No one knows,” he said. “Some people want to fight, but the leaders overruled them and sent away every ship they could. They probably surrendered without a fight, but we never learned for sure what happened to planets the Masters conquered.”

“So we just…left them?”

“We had to. It was the only way to ensure our civilization’s survival—by escaping to someplace the Masters couldn’t reach us. They knew there was nothing else they could do when they saw how powerful the Masters were.”

“But…but…how do we know the Masters didn’t follow us?” Destin asked frightfully.

“Because they couldn’t cross the Void any easier than we could. No one can. We made it across because we had a well-supplied Fleet with city-ships and crop land and other supplies, but they would have had to send a massive invasion force big enough to take care of us and anyone who’s on the other side of the Void, and that’s a lot harder. It’s just not possible to send a military force that big across the Void.” He wished he was as sure as he sounded. That was what the experts all said, but they were the only ones who really understood what they were talking about.

“So we’re the only ones left, then?”

“Not the only ones, Destin. The others are still out there, but probably under the Masters’ control. But who knows? Maybe someday another great fleet will come across the Void and tell us the Masters were defeated and everything’s alright again.”

“Will we go back if that happens, Father?”

“Some of us might. But it’s a very long journey, son, and I think three hundred years is long enough for me.”

The family caught a tram to the forward-most park in their section of the ship after dinner. Word had spread by then, and the place was filled almost shoulder to shoulder. The same fuzzy, blue galaxy hung in the sky, as it always did, and the ships of the Fleet were scattered across the field of view in their normal arrangement. The blue sky, fading to black by amidships, was unchanged, but if all went as planned, that was about to change.

A large countdown was displayed across the window itself, blinking in red numerals that contrasted against the sky. As the final moments ticked, down, the people counted with it with a fervor normally reserved for end-of-year, or perhaps end-of-century celebrations. Under the sound of the crowd came a low, building hum as the space-bending devices roared to life. If they had come close enough to the galaxy, they would react to the natural curvature of space and begin bending the ultraviolet light of the blueshifted microwave background around the Fleet.

When the countdown ended, there was not a shout, but a great silence as the crowd waited to see if it would work. At first, there seemed to be no effect, but then, the view began to bend. The crowd thundered. The forward view of the Fleet squeezed further forward, seeming to grow smaller and farther away as the array of ships filled a smaller and smaller circle. The crowd could feel the creeping cold as the black around the edges encroached closer and closer until the whole sky was compressed into a tiny disk. The light was bending around the Haven so that only a small disk of it could reach them.

There was a great rushing feeling, perhaps only imagined, as the circle of the sky grew brighter and brighter, a brilliant, blue ‘sun’, until it was too bright to look at. The warmth returned from the brilliance of the light. The Fleet had accelerated—fifty thousandfold, if the engineers were to be believed. Now they could finally reach that galaxy that had tantalized them for so long.

“It’s working, Destin,” Thurgood said. “It’s finally working.” He had dreamt of this day his whole life, and he looked like he might weep with joy. “Faith, Serenity,” he said, “we’re nearly there…We’re nearly home.”

Three weeks later, at the edge of the Triangulum Galaxy, a welcoming party waited. It was a large fleet under the circumstances made up of hundreds of ships, well-supported and well-supplied. They hoped it would be enough. The people crossing the Gulf were usually in need of some kind of material aid, and they didn’t even have a complete idea of how large this group was.

As they waited, a point of light appeared in the distant darkness. It let out a bright flash as it dropped below light speed, and the photons trapped in its distorted space field escaped. To the telescopic view, a streak appeared moving in the reverse direction behind it, as light that slipped out earlier caught up with it. The ship was of moderate size: a bit large by the welcoming party’s standards, and perhaps holding a thousand passengers. Its design was strange, made from an oblong core with both the space warping coils and the diverging lens generator mounted on an elaborate scaffolding encircling it. It was unlike anything the welcoming party had seen, and clearly very old. The hull was worn, pockmarked, even a bit corroded by the electromagnetic drag after what must have been centuries of constant flight. It had few windows, and some parts of the hull even looked patched over.

Withing seconds, several more ships dropped below light speed and sped forward to come up alongside the first. More ships appeared, one by one, but then, there was a much larger one. This ship was less rounded and more cylindrical than its smaller companions. Its face was divided into quarters, and its body was divided in half lengthwise, so that it was built in eight separate segments linked together by scaffolding. It was rotating to provide artificial gravity, and the inner surface of the cylinder was covered in skylights. It was easily ten times the size of the first ships and not even the largest in the fleet.

Dozens more of these lesser city ships and many smaller ships appeared faster and faster as the main part of the fleet arrived. The fleet was, indeed, very large. In a matter of seconds, there were hundreds of ships, and, in a brilliant flash, an even larger ship dropped below light speed. It was considerably wider than the others and four times as long, built out of forty-eight segments surrounding a single, massive central core. A great latticework of scaffolding bound equally massive engines to the hull. That ship alone could hold a hundred thousand people.

More and more ships poured out of the blackness, filling the sky ahead. This convoy was larger than anyone had imagined. The number of ships soon climbed into the thousands, and more of the enormous motherships appeared. After many minutes, the stream finally stopped. It was by far the largest convoy that had ever come across the Gulf: thirty thousand ships, probably sixty million sentient beings. The welcoming party hoped that their help would not be needed. If this fleet was not self-sufficient, there was little they could do from there.

But they could still greet them. Once the convoy was assembled, the leader of the welcoming party signaled to her subordinates to open a channel and activate the translation program they had developed from their probe’s received messages.

In the great forward green spaces of the Haven and the Wayfarer and a hundred other great city-ships, and on the viewscreens of the River Run and its thousands of sister ships, an image of an alien appeared, the first anyone had seen outside the memory banks. Its appearance was quite strange. It was bipedal, yes, and it had a recognizable head, yes; but its skin was pale, and tinted with brown, and it almost seemed to glow with a soft, golden light. Long strands of fine, black fibers seemed to be growing out of its head. It gave an impression of being female, but it was difficult to be certain.

The alien’s arms were short and appeared to have only one elbow joint. Her ankles bent forward, or perhaps they were knees set low and at a rather odd angle. Her eyes were unusually small, and what looked to be some sort of breathing organ protruded prominently from her face. Her whole frame seemed top-heavy, with legs set close together and a wide chest. She was surrounded by an assortment other aliens, some of whom resembled her superficially, while others took even more exotic forms.

The alien stepped forward and began speaking to them; in their own native tongue, no less; they must have found some way to translate their language, but learning it? That was a surprise. “Greetings,” she said. “I am Tara Morning Star, the President of the Star Federation of Andromeda, and the representative of the united nations of the Andromeda Group. We are pleased to welcome you to the Triangulum Galaxy. We have been observing you from a distance for some time, though we did not realize the full scale of your fleet. However, if you are in need of assistance, we will be glad to render whatever help we can.”

President Tara Morning Star stopped and waited for a response while her subordinates listened to the radio chatter coming from the vast Fleet before her. Anyone one could tell that this was the best thing the Wayferers could have hoped for. After three centuries of living on the limited resources of the Fleet, meeting a powerful and benevolent nation on their arrival was a miracle to them. Some disorganized signals went between the city-ships, and then the Wayfarer began transmitting back, the image appearing on the President’s screens, and those of the rest of the Fleet.

As Tara Morning Star watched, on the upper deck of an enormous chamber stood a stately alien with a distinct look of authority. Aids surrounded him—they were pretty sure it was a him—and the background was filled with a crowd of awestruck onlookers. He had smooth, blue-grey skin with no hair on his head or face. His eyes were set far apart, and he had no nose or ears to speak of, but only small holes on his face. His legs splayed out to the sides above an extra pair of backward-bending knees, jutting from hips that were set wider than his chest. His double-jointed arms hung nearly as low as his knees.

Stepping forward as the President had done, the leader of the Fleet began to speak, addressing her as a friend and equal expressing his gratitude on behalf of his people for her hospitality. They were not in need of supplies, he said, but only a habitable planet on which to settle, which they would greatly appreciate help in finding one. Their ancestors had prepared them well, and they had ample resources to rebuild their civilization. “And above all, thank you,” he said. “Thank you for allowing us to bring our Great Wayfaring to an end, for my people, we have finally made it home.”

He comes to me in pieces as I watch the stillness of space, envisioning new constellations in the array of unrecognized stars. I trace the sparks of light with my finger, connecting the dots and smudging the glass as a result.  

How many stars do you think there are in space? I imagine him asking. Can there really be other ones out there as big as or even bigger than the sun? 

I always admired his genuine curiosity, how he viewed things with a particular interest, how he saw me. He was the one that organized our sleepovers, the one that nudged me to sign up for afterschool activities such as the chemistry club and the robotics team.  

Can you build me a mechanical arm that'll change the channels on the TV's remote, so that way I don't have to? He once asked sarcastically. How about a drone that we can use to spy inside the girls' locker room, huh? Wouldn't that be neat? 

When we were kids, he would give me piggyback rides and run with me through the sprinklers across watery arches with captured rainbows. We'd go back home, and my mother would scold us while our shivering bodies shared a single towel, and in the end, he'd shine me a blue-lipped smile with his crooked teeth.

That was fun, wasn't it?  

Our childhood adventures involved trips to the public pool, wet t-shirts, and popsicles mucking up our fingers under the August sun. He'd take me to his baseball team's practices, and I'd watch him bat while I built rovers and complex constructs out of legos on the bleachers.

Booyah! He'd shout after a home run. I'd cheer or clap, and he would always gleam and say the same thing. It's going, it's going, gone. Kiss that puppy goodbye.

A few years later, our tastes matured, slipping our summers into memories and substituting them for leather jackets and motorcycle rides on the empty freeway. He and I would stop on the roadsides by green fields that looked blue under the night sky. We'd sit under the blanket of stars and watch the moon while dreaming up our futures after high school.  

I'm going to apply for a sports scholarship and get the fuck out of this town, he'd always say. How about you?

I don't know. I shrugged. Maybe I'll go work with my dad as an apprentice at his accounting firm.

What? Come on, man, you got to apply for university too. You're a freakin brainiac. I'm sure you could get into any school.

Out the bay window, I see the lunar triplets: Euphrosyne, Aglia, and Thalia dancing around what the New Worlds Association likes to call Undine, the flooded, blue planet, equivalent in size to Jupiter, that I've been studying for what would be measured, on planet Earth, as eight months. 

The journey to this specific star system took four years. The rest of the crew and I have enough resources to last another sixteen Earth months. By then, we'll have made a substantial dent in our research. Our food, water, fuel, along with our tolerance for the presence of one another, will have depleted, and we'll go into cryosleep for our return. A decade, that's how long we'll have been apart. 

So you'll be asleep, frozen in a coffin for about eight years? 

I assured him that it was completely safe, that I wouldn't die in transport. 

But doesn't that mean that you'll come back looking almost the same as when you left? Won't you technically be younger than me?

I think about his current age. How it's already been more than four years, and how unfair it must have seemed to him; that he'd miss me in the entirety of all that elapsed time while I'd be sleeping almost all the years away, except for two.   

Sometimes I wonder if he tells his other friends and customers about me. My buddy's up in space, I imagine him saying. What's he doing up there? He's researching a new planet, someplace better than this shit hole we're destroying. 

Undine registers an oxygen signature similar to Europa and planet Earth. The oceanic surface covering the entire planet could host a form of phytoplankton or an entirely new plant species capable of producing oxygen as a byproduct of their natural photosynthetic process. In other words, Undine could, in theory, host life. 

If I'm being honest with myself, sometimes I feel that my role on this ship isn't as relevant as the other crew members' works. That perhaps what I'm doing isn't as impacting, that it's less exciting. I'm not spacewalking or trying to merge chemical compounds under zero-gravity conditions. I barely passed the physical exam, and my score on the simulatory emergency program ranked me as the fifth in command if anything were to happen to our pilot or the others of my crew.  

So what? He'd fire. You'll still be one of the few guys part of the human race to have ever gone up to space. You'll still have broken records, be mentioned in the history books. You'll have gone places no one has ever been to. 

 

It was always like him to see the bright side in situations. When he didn't get his full-ride to college, he applied for the town's undergrad program at the local college. Don't worry, man, I'm still going to make it back and get myself out of this place.

When he couldn't juggle both his academic life and work to help his folks pay the bills, he still didn't crumble under all the pressure. I'll take a break this semester, and then on the next one, I'll go back. 

He never returned to school to finish his undergrad. Maybe college just isn't for me. He opted to continue working, helping out his folks, and eventually went to, and finished, trade school. I'm thinking about opening a restaurant. He told me years ago. What about you, what are you thinking about doing with your life, huh, Mr. Big Shot Imma certified scientist?

I laughed at his remark. I don't know, I answered. I guess I could teach or go for my Ph.D.

What? But you just finished school, now you're thinking about going back? He commented while scratching his beard. He tugged on the bill of his baseball cap and shook his head in disapproval. You're nuts, man! 

Yeah? And what do you think I should do?

If I were as wicked smart as you, I'd go to the moon!

Scientists are some of the professionals that, depending on their branch of specialization, are often courted by big-money tech companies and international organizations. He heard about a space program from one of his faithful customers, a man that worked as a research assistant for the state university who always ordered a bear claw with a large cup of coffee and a BLT for the road.

He told me how the New Worlds Association was looking for people to blast off, in his own words, into space. That the money I'd receive would leave me set for life.  

He was the one that showed me the association's website. It says here you have to send them a paper or something explaining your qualifications, along with an idea for a project applicable in space, highlighting a specific area of research. Does that sound like something you could do?

Huh? I was distracted at first by the site's banner, a rocket blasting off into the moon, pointing like an arrowhead to the unknown. I think so, I answered, correcting myself. But —

But what if I get accepted? That's what I should have asked. But what if they don't think I'm qualified enough? What if I'm rejected?

Then they're crazy, he snapped back. You're the most intelligent person I know! No way, they'd reject you. 

I pitched him my project several times, letting him serve as my judge and jury. The idea was simple, build a compact, remote-operated device that could probe the oceanic planet of Undine. 

Do you mean like a robotic hand?

Exactly, think of it like a hand that's also like a drone, I said. A machine that could enter the planet and try to collect data on whether there are any living organisms present in the planet's aquatic terrain or not. If the scan is positive, it'll extract several samples for me and the crew. Some of these samples can undergo analysis and testing while in space, and others could be stored in a controlled environment on the spacecraft and transported back home with us. 

He stared at me for a few seconds, his eyes wide and his mouth nearly dangling from his jaw like a bell. 

So...what do you think?

I think you're going into space. 

The admiration in his eyes was stunning and had me gleaming like a young boy. Who knows, maybe we'll even stop by the moon on our return?

The probe, Michaelangelo, named by myself, will enter Undine's domain in approximately two weeks. From our current distance, the device's descent will take anywhere from two to three days. That's when my mission will reach its zenith and when things could get dicey. I'll have to watch over Michaelangelo as if it's a newborn child learning to swim. I'll also have to frequently analyze Undine's tidal patterns and climate while observing the incoming data as soon as Michaelangelo departs from the spacecraft.

Do you think Michaelangelo will make it out of that place in one piece? he asked with a worried expression as if the probe was a living creature, a pet cat or dog.

I think so. I'm working with a pretty big budget, and it'll be made exclusively for the mission.

Knowing you'll be the one to build him, I'm sure he'll be great! No, I'm wrong. Michaelangelo will be better than great. He'll be fucking perfect.  

I'm glad one of us is feeling confident, I returned, leaning back into his sofa. He plopped himself right beside me, threw his arm over my neck, and pulled me into his orbit with such savagery that we ended up rolling onto the floor. He flipped himself over, partially resting his chest over mine, don't be so hard on yourself. I believe in you.

I'll miss you, you know that, right? I gushed. We hadn't talked about the possibility of my leaving, camouflaging the void that would be left behind with excitement and speculation. My eyes at that moment reddened, burned much like they always do whenever I think of him.

Hey, it'll be a good opportunity for you, won't it? You'll be doing something you're good at, something that could help everyone back here on planet Earth.  

Onboard the spaceship, there's a mechanic who's responsible for repairs and keeping the ship functioning, who sometimes also gets the chance to soar like an acrobat in the depths of space. We have a medic doing research on the proliferation of diseases under low gravity conditions. 

They all sound like show-offs, that's what! 

There's also a physicist and a botanist. Our pilot's one of the few men to have traveled multiple times to the moon and Mars, as well as a skilled photographer who captured high-definition photos of cosmic dust clouds, and then there's me, a certified scientist, as he'd like to say. 

A certified scientist who won himself a round trip ticket to space. 

Weeks before my leave, we were lying close to one another in a field of dark-blue grass. You're going to do big things up there, he said. He turned and shined me his crooked smile. And when you're back, everyone is going to know your name. 

You know I don't care about any of that stuff. I'm much more interested in seeing the planet with the three moons.

I swear, man, only you.  

Everyone here talks about their projects, comments on how much they miss their family. Our captain left his wife three months pregnant back home, our mechanic and our medic, two kids each. When they turn to me and ask if I've left anything important behind, the first person that comes to mind isn't my mother or father, a house or a car; it's him.  

I'm the quiet one up here. Space is already deathly silent, but it and I enter into staring contests with each other through the bay window, my eyes versus Undine's three moons. I watch them, the triplets that grace the aquatic planet, drawing up conclusions as to what might occur if one of the lunar bodies were to simply explode. Obviously, there'd be no sound, but I'd watch the floating remnants, mesmerized by the rubble as if catching the sight of fallen snow.

In this particular star system, aside from all the planets and moons spread out across the field of space, there's also a bright celestial body similar to the sun back home. The lone star is distant from everything, the same way that I'm years away from my planet and from the only person more important to me than anything in the whole universe.   

How do you think things will be like once I'm back? I asked him before I left for my physical and mental training. 

What do you mean? He returned. 

Will we still be —

You're kidding, right? Come on, I know you're smarter than that. 

He hugged me, and for a moment, I wished he had begged me not to go. I considered the idea of staying, of resisting the money, and even the chance to see the moon. 

Promise me you'll be here when I get back.

I wouldn't dream of leaving this place without you. I'll be here waiting for you. Me, and this planet with nothing but a single moon. 

At times I question myself. What's so great about a planet that's essentially all water and almost no detectable land? And I'll hear him saying how we could build floating houses or architectural structures like the Maldives, or that we can bring out a boat from Earth just like Noah's Ark and spend our days searching the blue world for a paradisiac island. Who knows, maybe we could even live in underwater domes like The Atlanteans?

I'll nod and chuckle to myself and say sure as if it's all so simple. I'll picture us both on Undine drifting together in its never-ending pool. He and I, in our own private world, where we'll swim in our t-shirts and play with Michaelangelo. 

Before I left, he gave me an envelope, open it only once you're far away from Earth. It's because of what he wrote that I know I'll return, that I'll tell him everything, from what I saw to what I dreamt. I'll say how much I remembered, how much I missed him, and I'll repeat the exact verse he wrote at the end of his letter; three words more significant to me than Undine and its three moons. 

I am spinning slowly in my tank, suspended in doped-up air, buoyant, bobbing. Piano music (Beethoven?) plays softly in the background. My eyes are closed, but if I opened them, I would see only pale yellow light enclosing me in a warm glow.

I like the piano music. It makes me feel calm. That, alongside the sedation. The Facility keeps mine light, because I prefer it that way, and because I am well-behaved. The Facility knows my ways, knows I don’t misbehave. I have been here for a long time now. It must be years, though there is no sense of time. No calendar, no clock. Only the pale light washing over me, keeping me warm. 

This morning, the Facility reminded me that my son will visit me today. He comes every week, at the same time. While the staff prepare me for his visit, they tell me he is good to me, compared to most of the others in here, at the Blessed Home facility, whose families have forgotten them. I nod and smile gently, murmuring the right response. They think my mind is feeble, like so many in here. I cannot see outside my tank, but the Facility can see inside, so I stay locked inside my mind. They cannot see inside my mind. In my mind, I am not suspended in a tank of gas and air. I go away, far from here.

Where do I go? I go home, to my sprawling house in the countryside, with a red-tiled roof and ivy-covered archway, the mishmash of furniture and ornaments, collected over a lifetime, heavy with memories. For sixty years, my wife and I lived there, raised our child and grew old. We had a black cat with a white tummy called Cat Stevens. But then my wife died and my only son accused me of going senile.

The bell that signals that my sedation has stopped chimes. Soon, they will come to collect me. I stop spinning as the air thins and I float to the bottom of the tank. I wait.

A pop of glass opening, bright light seeps inside. A gentle hand the length of my body picks me up from under my arms and seats me in a dollhouse armchair. I watch as the giant girl in the Facility's uniform scrubs her hands in a sink as large as a swimming pool. She is a kind of nurse, I think. My wife was a nurse, though in our day, the Facility didn’t exist. I am handed a pair of sunglasses while my eyes adjust to the natural light. 

“How are you feeling today, Mr Donnelly?” her voice booms.

I mumble something as she dresses me. When I first arrived, I was embarrassed by foreign hands touching my body, stripping me bare, clothing me in strange scratchy Facility clothes. But now, I am apathetic. Maybe it’s the drugs. 

When I am presentable, she brings me to the visiting area. I sit in an armchair, more comfortable than the last, watching vast visitors speak to their doll-sized relatives. I once heard a story about a family who brought home their shrunken grandma from the Facility, only to have her chewed up by her once beloved dog.

My son comes into view, striding towards me with confident steps. I used to walk like that too, before I came to the Facility. He plants himself squarely in the visitor’s chair, launching into a nervous segment on his drive here, and the audacity of other drivers, and how isn’t it ridiculous that with all the technological advancements in the world, we still don’t have cars that drive the middle class from A to B?

While he talks, I let my mind drift. I used to be angry at him for forcing me to come here. Of course, he needed consent, but the pressure, financial and emotional, forced my hand. He threw all kinds of arguments at me; overpopulation, nursing homes. I used to wonder if he wanted to punish me, if I was a bad father, if I shouted too much, if I pushed him too far, if he resented me. 

I don’t wonder anymore. I don’t do anything much. The end is coming soon; I can tell by the way my body submit to sedation. I asked them to lighten it, because I know I will sleep for a long time, soon. I want to comb over my memories of home, before I go on to whatever lies beyond. I wish I was going home. But I’ll never go home again. 

***

The thirty-minute drive to my father’s facility is the most inconvenient part of my week. I swear as I swerve around incompetent idiots, blaring the horn and flipping off scandalised old ladies who surely shouldn't have licenses anyway. It’s amazing with all the advancements in technology, I still have to drive myself to get where I need to go. I take my anger out on the road, so that by the time I get to Blessed Home, I am wrung dry of emotion.

I first heard about it when my father was getting too senile to live at home, and we were looking at nursing homes for him. But the demand is competitive, the prices obscene, the facilities bad. I didn’t want him to be abused and neglected, and he flat out refused to go to a nursing home. Pulled the “what would your mother think?” line too. 

Someone told me about this facility. They had seen it on the dark web. I brought my father here for a consultation. They welcomed us warmly, offered us coffee, spewed us with medical jargon. We toured the premises as they explained the basics of the technology, how it was possible to reduce the size of a person using extreme heat pressure to the size of a ragdoll, while preserving their body and mind. They showed us to a vault, where little old people bobbing in silver containers lined the walls, sleeping. They described the benefits - fewer drugs needed, less food, less waste, easier to manage large numbers of people, easy storage. They were sedated the majority of the time, woken at various intervals to eat, to exercise, to excrete.

He wasn’t convinced. But because the nursing home was a no-go, it was easier to convince him to try. That was all we needed. Left with no other option, he signed his life away. I promised to visit him every week. I have never broken that promise. 

The facility is spotlessly white. The receptionist flashes me an expensive smile.

“Welcome to Blessed Home, Mr Donnelly. Go right ahead.”

They always have him ready to see me as soon as I arrive. During his former life, he was a big man, looming, powerful. A blue-collar labourer who wanted a better life for his son. His presence, hell, his shadow, used to scare me. Now, as I walk towards him, he is miniscule, deflated. He looks tired. He always looks tired.

I tell him about my week. He listens, or doesn’t. I can’t tell, because he nods and murmurs at the right times, but never asks me questions. I never ask him how he is doing. I know he does nothing. He goes back into the vat of drugged up air and bobs around for hours, days, left with nothing but his own fading memories and medicated slumber. 

Do I feel ashamed? I don’t dwell on it for long enough to feel anything but relief. I don’t have to sacrifice my life to look after him, or remortgage my house to fund his last years. I don’t feel guilty, because I’m not alone. Thousands of families send their elderly, dying relatives to these facilities, which have sprung up all over the country. It’s normalised now. So it must be OK.

At the end of our hour together, I always turn away, so I won’t have to look at him being lifted like a baby back into the vault. I wonder if he ever misses his home, the old house with the rusty roof and overgrown garden, sold to pay the price to live in a tank. After drinking alone one evening, filled with morbid curiosity, I drove by. Bleary eyed, I noted a strange car in the driveway. The lawn was mowed, the roof replaced, the door painted a happy yellow. I wanted to stop and knock on the door. But I didn't. I looked away, eyes on the road, and kept driving. 


“MDV undock in three...two...one.” With those words, six humans were only minutes away from setting
foot on an alien world for the first time since the Apollo missions. Declan O’Connor would not be one of
them.
The lone geologist of the seven person crew, he would be remaining in orbit aboard the Hermes. He
often joked about the wisdom of leaving the lone geologist in space on such a momentous occasion, but
his mission was the grandest of all, in his not so humble opinion. While his crewmates would explore
the area immediately around the landing site in great detail, Declan’s mission was to explore the entire
planet using a fleet of cubesats, gliders, and rovers. While they would be conducting tests on the micro
scale, he would be analyzing the data streams of nearly a dozen observing platforms and directing their
paths and tests in real time to the most interesting geological formations. Unlike previous rovers, such
as Spirit and Curiosity with their long delay between sending observations and receiving new orders,
Declan would be able to control the newest rovers in real time, even if he was on the other side of the
planet, by using the newly deployed network of cubesats.
Declan flexed his hands in his haptic gloves and pulled various overlays on top of the visual
representation of Mars. Unlike the cramped lab module he occupied in real life, he had as much space
and equipment available to him as he wanted in his VR workshop. His virtual lab was a matte black 
platform that mimicked the space ship Hermes’ position. Mars filled the horizon, turning slowly beneath
him while Phobos raced along, just disappearing over the curve of the red planet. All around the
spacious curved desk, various screens hovered in the air displaying data in real time.
VR interfaces weren’t exactly new; Declan had grown up with them his entire life, starting with the
crude models that used his parents’ smartphones to explore places far away. The first models were lowres and used a clunky interface that jumped you from one virtual spot to another.
Of course, it didn’t take long for technology to make huge improvements from those first generation
models. Dedicated visors were developed with greater and greater resolution, but it was still difficult to
navigate the virtual environment when you couldn’t see the controller in your hands.
The development of haptic control gloves was a huge step forward. Instead of being confined to a
keyboard or a few buttons on a game controller, suddenly you could use all ten fingers in threedimensional virtual space and receive pressure feedback that mimicked interacting with objects in the
real world.
The technology was a huge breakthrough, but the infrastructure remained stubbornly beholden to the
antiquated technology for years. Unsurprisingly, it was the gaming community that enthusiastically
embraced the new technology and drove the markets forward. There was a resurgence in immersive
video games, especially the massively multiplayer games. Instead of seeing the landscape of Middle
Earth on a flat screen, you could now walk through it in immersive 3D complete with surround
sound. Instead of hitting a button to send a fireball at your enemies, you drew a pattern in the
air. Through the haptic interface, it felt like you were actually holding a staff or sword in your
hands. This was a reality that took hand-eye coordination to a new level.
In his lifetime, Declan had explored dozens of fantasy worlds and even more based in the real world. He
had flown fighter planes through enemy gunfire, parachuted into cenotes in Mexico, dived the Great
Barrier Reef, and even relived the moon launches and landings from the astronauts’ perspective. Each
experience was more and more realistic with every new generation of technology.
Declan often gave thanks that his parents had been gamers when they were young, and unlike so many
others, they kept playing even after he’d been born. He’d cut his teeth on puzzle games and kid-friendly
combat and exploration games. His fondest memories were family game nights where he and his
parents would order pizza and play games until bedtime. His generation were the first to grow up so
immersed with the new technology, and now it was about to be used on the first mission to Mars to give
humanity their best and most detailed look at the red planet in history.
From the comfort of his VR lab, Declan was able to watch the separation and descent of his fellow
crewmembers aboard the Mars Descent Vehicle. At first, his only viewpoint was from the Hermes and
its onboard cameras. As the MDV streaked through the thin Martian atmosphere, the heat shield did its
job and absorbed the atmospheric heating until the air was thick enough for the massive parachutes to
come out. They were easily three times the size of the ones they would use to fall back to Earth on the
return, but even their massive size wouldn’t adequately slow the vehicle enough for a soft landing in the
thin air. They would finish the descent on rockets.
The heat shield did its job, and as it fell away, it exposed the first time-crucial element of Declan’s
mission. Three tiny gliders, curled, folded and tightly packed were ejected, and through an elaborate 
series of springs and material memory, the gliders unfolded as they were slowed and stabilized by a
miniature parachute.
Declan watched through a multitude of sensors and cameras as the three gliders assembled
themselves. Monstrously long wings unfolded as the inverted tail stabilizers folded and clicked into
place. The wings were coated with transparent solar cells that allowed the UV resin underneath to cure
in the Martian sunlight. The resin would quickly harden and stabilize the wings into their final
configuration. The solar cells had been cutting edge when they built the gliders, but two years later
were common enough that his parents had just replaced all their south-facing windows with these new
transparent cells.
Now all his attention was on coordinating the flight paths of his gliders. An unconscious smile tugged
the corners of his lips. All three gliders had survived and were working! His virtual workspace
transformed into a three way aerial view of Mars. He quickly oriented their cameras on the MDV. Both
communications and telemetry indicated a smooth descent so far, but he felt immeasurably better
seeing it with his own eyes, even if they were virtual.
In the real world, Declan was lying in his chair, waving his hands about in arcane patterns. In his
workspace, he was directing the glider flight paths in real time with the assistance of the ship’s Virtual
Intelligence, Pearl. He provided the overall direction and guidance for the gliders, while Pearl analyzed
the tiny variations in lift and angle of attack required to keep them stable in the perilously thin air. The
seamless partnership between man and V.I. was what allowed such unprecedented freedom on this
Mars mission. Having a human in orbit eliminated the time lag between Mars and Earth. He could
provide the organic decision making while Pearl did the rapid computations needed to keep up with
him. It was the best of both worlds...in theory. Now it was up to him to prove that it worked.
He kept two gliders circling above the MDV with all sensors focused on it. Glider number three he sent
south with a flick of his wrist to begin the first flown exploration of Mars. He watched anxiously through
robotic eyes as the descent rockets gimbaled to keep the vehicle upright. In spite of the fact that they
had practiced the descent hundreds of times in simulators, they all knew anything could happen on the
real thing. Declan held his breath as the vehicle approached the ground. His comm was open, so he
didn’t actually voice his thoughts aloud, but he found himself praying that nothing went wrong and he
wouldn’t have to make the return to trip to Earth by himself. Would be a damn lonely flight, he
thought.
He let out a huge sigh of relief with the giant lander touched down and the rockets cut off. His relief was
audibly echoed by the rest of the crew on the ground. “Good job, Pate,” he told the pilot. To the
commander, “Moving to phase two of RPF.” Remote Piloted Flight was just a fancy way of saying real
life video games in his mind.
Grinning madly to himself, he pulled up the info on each glider. The solar cells on their wings would help
power their electric propulsion engines and theoretically keep them aloft for the next thirty days,
allowing him to explore heretofore unimagined expanses of the Martian landscape.
Declan switched over to glider Three’s feed and mapped its cameras and sensors into his visor. His
workshop view changed from dozens of data screens hanging in space to a fully immersive, high def
video of the Martian landscape. He forgot to breathe for a long moment as he stared at the aweinspiring vista spread below him. The MDV had landed north of the equator in a section of lowland 
plains chosen by mission planners because it offered the least challenges to a successful landing. The
other benefit was that it was close, in terms of glider distance, to Olympus Mons and the more rugged
southern highlands.
As Three flew south, he could already see the peak of Olympus Mons rising over the
horizon. Underneath him, the landscape was painted in brilliant and austere shades of red, rust, brown,
tan, and black. He tapped his finger on a toggle that existed only in his workspace and the scene was
augmented with infrared. More taps and he could see the gravitational map, the atmospheric density of
dust and concentrations of CO2, the magnetic field, and even spectral returns of the minerals on the
surface. As he watched, Pearl was packaging and streaming the data back to Earth for the scientists to
dive into.
He gloried in the sheer magnificence of the data-enhanced landscape spread out beneath him. It was
exceptionally easy to imagine that it was his own body flying through the Martian skies, his own eyes
looking out over the barren planet. His smile turned wistful as he started to analyze the flood of data
coming back to him. The first geologist to reach the red planet, and even though he would never
actually set foot on the planet, he would experience more of Mars than anyone else in human
history. His gliders, and soon his rovers, would fly and climb over hundreds of square miles of
Mars. Would he really trade all of that just to set foot on the Martian soil and explore a couple measly
hills and craters? No, he decided. Not when he had the freedom to explore anything that caught his
interest on the entire freaking planet.
He flipped through the feeds from One and Two. They were flying west, chasing the setting sun to
extend their lives and reach. Pushing the feeds back into the data wall, he prepared to launch the
rovers. Using data from the gliders, he could land the rovers in places humans had been itching to
explore since they first looked through a telescope at their nearest neighbor. Keeping track of the
gliders, rovers and cubesats would meld into the most intricate and complex game he had ever
played. At stake were the secrets of Mars, and he was determined to unlock them all.
He might be alone in orbit over Mars, but he was in constant contact with his crew mates and he had
Pearl and an entire fleet of observation vehicles. He was far from lonely. Geologist, gamer, Martian
pilot, and explorer extraordinaire. Life didn’t get any better than this.

